# Chapter 15 Part 2: The Warrior Learning Path

 Dean, part two, the Warrior Pro Learning Path and what comes next. So in this section, I want to stay focused on the end game and I want to come back to that magic number that we talked about at the very beginning of day trade and the basics. And then we're going to talk about what comes next. So your magic number, we thought about, I asked you, what is the amount of money that you want to have coming in each month in order to cover your cost to living? Multiply that by 300 and you got based on the rule of 4%. The amount of money that you would need in a retirement account, in a order to just live off that account and not have to work another day in your life. And I said that when I got into trading, I was willing to take a pay cut. I was willing to let to make less money in order to live a life that was completely on my own terms. Coming back to my five acres and independence. And so what trading did was even though I didn't have that big multi-million dollar nest egg right here, what I had instead in a way was more powerful. What I ended up having was the ability to make $200 per day. And I learned that I could make that $200 a day and I could make it in up markets. I could make it in down markets. I could make it pretty consistently year over year over year over year. Some years were a little better, some years were a little worse. There's no question about that based on the ebb and the flow of the market. But I had this skill. $200 a day. It's $1,000 a week. That's $5,000 a month. About $60,000 per year. So all of a sudden you do the math. So times 300, sorry, five times 300. So now we're at the equivalent of having $1.5 million in a retirement account. Now of course it would be nicer just to have the 1.5 million in cash and to take the $5,000 a month and like a distribution that you don't have to do any work for, I suppose. But on the other hand, what's so empowering about learning a skill that actually generates profit is that you have something known can take away from you. You can't get fired from your 9-5 job, you know, the boss, whatever. They screw things up. They have to lay people off. The economy. This is something that you have right here. That to me is amazing. And of course what we've learned is that once you're consistently making $20 a day with small size, 100 shares, scaling up to 50 a day, 75 a day, 100 a day, 200 a day, maybe 2,000 a day, maybe 5,000 a day. Who knows, right? That there's some degree of scalability. And so what you essentially have are sort of two things going for you. You're thinking about what's that magic number in terms of, you know, how much I want to make per month. What would that mean in terms of actual money sitting in an account? And maybe you're coming to the table and you've already, you're already making some progress towards this goal. Who knows, maybe you've got a third of the way towards this goal. So or halfway, whatever it might be. And you think, well, if I can make even just 100 a day, all of a sudden, that means, oops, not 100, 100 a day, all of a sudden that means with $750,000 in the bank, maybe I could retire. 750 in the bank plus this new skill. Maybe that means I can move up my retirement from age 68, I'm sorry, to 55 or something like that. Who knows, right? You make a little bit of progress here plus you've got this. Now, having a skill that you can translate into money is not unlike what you have at your nine to five job. The thing with the market, as we've learned is that for those who find success, and we know that success can be very elusive, but for those who find success, their ability to scale their strategy. They can increase how much they're making from year one through year five at a far greater rate per year than you'd ever make in salary growth at a nine to five job, right? And with trading, it's not an eight hour a day job. It could be eight hours a day while you're learning. You've got the time to dedicate, there's nothing wrong with that. But once you've got it dialed in, it doesn't have to be eight hours a day. For most traders, it's a few hours a day. So now, you're getting, even if you're making the same exact amount that you're making at a nine to five job, you got back a lot of time. Would you make 15% less to get back all that time? I would. 50% less, maybe, depending on circumstances. So I want to one of my goals here was to give you a very holistic approach to thinking about finance, thinking about your financial position, thinking about the market, and thinking about how trading, and potentially actively investing in the market fits into this equation. So I think it's important to set the goalposts and to kind of anchor yourself towards my goal is 200 a day because that has me on track to basically earning the equivalent of X amount of money, you know, with $1.5 million in a retirement account. And that all of a sudden really changes the trajectory of my life. That's a big significant improvement. So then what's next? Well, you've gone through day train to basics, but the education doesn't stop here. Number one, you get to continue to tune in to my live stream, you listen to my commentary, tune into mentor sessions right here in the warrior trading community, and you can also continue on with strategies and scaling. We've set a solid foundation, and that was the goal, that we would touch on these key concepts for day trading, but that we would be able to come back around to them as we continue on with strategies and scaling, and that's how we developed something that you can really build. That's your platform to build a really solid strategy, and one that's well-rounded. Yes, you've got one that you can walk away from day train to basics with, but we're going to add more. And so in strategies and scaling, my strategies and scaling course, which I've actually taught just before teaching day train to basics, so this is all retot at the same time, currently sets it 20 chapters long. Invested PDF called it the most comprehensive day trading course, and I suppose maybe they got to look at my slide deck and saw that the slide deck on strategies and scaling is at right now about 2,300 slides. I'm some say pushing the limits on Google Slides, but here we've got day train to basics coming in at 558 slides out of right now. So getting close to 300 slides between these two classes, this is very comprehensive. It goes into a tremendous amount of depth. The goal here was to download everything in my brain that I know about trading and put it into this curriculum. Every nuance, every strategy, from simple to the most complex. And so it's all right here, and this is the blueprint, and you can pick it up, and it's yours. And so my hope is that you continue on with strategies and scaling. You continue the education because there's so much more to learn, and even in all of my years trading, I still learn more every single day. I'm still learning more. And that actually, to me, is one of the things that I love so much about trading. Sometimes people say, Ross, when are you going to retire? And I said, would you ask a professional tennis player, when are you going to quit playing tennis? You're not going to quit. You're not going to quit when you love it. It's so, it's stimulating. It's exciting. Every day is different. It's always a challenge. There's no tennis player that wins 100% of time. There's no trader that wins 100% of time. And so there's always that feeling that you could have done a little bit better. And tomorrow, you got the ball back. Let's give it another shot. So, am I going to trade every day for 10, 12 hours a day? No, I'm not going to do that. And I'm sure a professional tennis player wouldn't do that either, but you're going to get out there every day because it feels great. And once you've developed this skill of how to convert this knowledge of the market into actual tangible profit, it's something that you don't want to walk away from that. So certainly there's hot markets where I'll be more aggressive in colder markets from, you know, a bit more conservative. But I have to say that trading is incredibly stimulating. It's incredibly interesting. It really is very engaging. And I think that's one of the reasons that you see people from all walks of life and all ages that come into the market. We have people that come in who are, they've retired from a successful career. And they're like, this is something interesting. I want to learn more about trading. Maybe it's not even just about that I might not be out of a necessity of needing money. It's just a, this is something I've always been interested in. I want to see if I can master this skill. And if I can, that'd be pretty cool. And it is pretty cool. So, I hope you guys are excited as I am to show up every day. I think you are. And the, just as a sort of big picture, one of the reasons I create warrior trading. So I originally created warrior trading as a blog. And that was in 2012. I created a WordPress blog. And I did that at the time because I had spent, you know, well, I think I might have mentioned this in a previous class. But one of my introductions to trading was actually at a monastery school that I went to in Vermont. And they had a whole semester on the stock market, which, you know, the teacher later told me it was just their way of making learning basic arithmetic interesting and exciting for the kids. And it was, and it got me hooked. And it was changed my life entirely. So I, oh Kevin, a tremendous amount of thanks. But I also had a semester there where we did internships. And those internships were incredibly valuable. So I did an internship with a web designer in Bratabra over in Vermont. And so I would go, you know, once a week and she taught me how to write an HTML and how to build websites. And so during the 2000s, I built a lot of websites and I built them for friends and for people's small businesses and, you know, things like that, a couple little nonprofit websites. And that was like one of my first little businesses in a way was building websites for people. And I had had the experience more times than I could count of having a computer where I lost everything. The computer crashed and everything was gone. So as I was learning to trade, I was, I was creating these folders of all of these trading charts, all the patterns and these docs. And I said, I can't, I can't lose all this progress. I'm going to upload this somewhere. And so I put it on a WordPress blog. I made a WordPress blog, which was an easy, clean way to make a website. I wanted kind of like a Wikipedia of day trading. I wish I thought of investing. But maybe they already existed. I don't know. Day trade, a PDF. Anyways, so I created the WordPress blog. And it was really for me to organize my own thoughts, which is what kind of the idea of WordPress. It's a blog. And so I created it. But as websites do, they are indexed on search engines and people started visiting the site to check out some of the blogs I had. And one of the blogs I had was on momentum trading. And there was a lot of people that were coming to visit the blog specifically on that search and on that page. And so I eventually in 2013 created a YouTube channel where I upload, start uploading some videos that I just embedded on the blog. The only reason I used YouTube was because it was free. And I could embed the videos on the blog. That was it. But then eventually more people were actually watching those videos on YouTube than were even coming to the blog. And so then that kind of became you know, this journey of adding more videos on YouTube and some of them don't even go on the blog. And realizing that there was a community of traders who were as passionate and interested in this thing as me. And so I created a chat room. And that became the community where we all connected. And then that summer after I created a chat room, I decided to teach the very first version of my day trading course, which was a 15 chapter course. I taught at that summer. And the next summer, I wrote the first version of my book, How to Day Trade, which accompanied essentially the course. And that was the first course was actually in 2014 that I taught. And now it's been more than a decade of teaching classes and continuing to write and continuing to document my journey of learning how to trade. You know, through that journey there were ups and there were downs. And there were members that were along for the whole right from the very beginning. And some of them are even still here today. And those who are still here today are some of some of the first badge holders of warrior trading. The first people to earn, you know, a 500k and then a million dollar badge, which has been phenomenal. So the whole thing with creating the community ended up being that I wanted to I wanted to create a place where I could engage with other people that were as passionate about this as I am. And so today I think of warrior trading in a way as a hub that continues to unite traders of a similar mindset that are interested in this similar strategy. And in this, you know, day and age now there's niches of communities for every probably aspect of the market. I'm sure there's forex communities. I'm sure there's futures and crypto and all variations of crypto and short selling and you know, large caps and everything else. And this has just been the pocket of the market where I found success. And I've been thrilled to see, you know, a number of people who've earned badges who have done it really well in their own right. And it's been just a thrill to see and to be, you know, on this side of the community, but it's as much about you as it is me because you are what create the community. So I'm thrilled to be able to be part of it, but share this with you and to be able to kind of hosted this environment to make it what it is. So thank you guys for being part of this and this concludes the end of day trading the basics. And now it's time to continue right on with day trading strategies and scaling. So let's continue on and I'll see you for chapter one of Stragis and Scaling.