# Chapter 15 Part 1: Trading Plan & Day Trading Strategy

Alright, so we're going to go ahead and jump in here to Chapter 15, the chapter you've all been waiting for, where I'm going to share with you a trading plan and a day trading strategy that you can begin implementing in your own trading starting today. This is exciting. This is where the rubber really meets the road and you've all put in a lot of hard work to get all the way here to Chapter 15. So, I'm going to begin by sharing with you my trading plan and this is a trading plan designed for beginner traders with the primary focus of building confidence. Here's the issue, most beginner traders, as we know, jump into the market with real money. What do they do? They start losing. And those first losses, create, we've already talked about the emotion of anger and frustration. They then take more trades to try to recoup those losses. They lose more money and they get even more angry and next thing you know, they blown up and they're gone and I've even seen this happen to traders who previously had a track record of being quite consistent. Really consistent doing really well and then they get it one loss. A second loss and then things really start to unwind quickly as they just get so emotional. So even for me, even with all my years of experience, I am still thinking about how can I always be thinking about capping my downside and keeping myself in a position where I can maintain a high degree of self confidence. So what I'm going to share with you here is especially designed for beginner traders and it's a seven phase approach to transitioning from the simulator to real money. As you know, you should all be trading the simulator right now. I'm not going to share all seven phases right now during day trading the basics, but I'm going to introduce to you alpha phase and beta phase. These are the two phases that are the most relevant for where you're at in your trading. During the strategies in scale and course, I dive deep into all of the phases and break down the steps that you take to transition from phase to phase to phase. Okay, so let me start by introducing the alpha phase. I often have had traders who have gone through the curriculum, they take the trading plan that I share with you and they say, well, Ross, you know, one of the interesting things about your trading plan is that it calls for taking one trade a day with real money. And I say, well, that's true. That that is kind of what I've always said is the small count way. Part of that has been due to the historical limitation of a cash account. Most small count traders fund a cash account. You can only afford to use all of the buying power that's available. And if you have a 1,000 or 2,000 dollar cash account. Typically, we would just take one trade a day. You've used up all that cash and then you have to wait for the next day. With different settlement restrictions and, you know, changes in margin and account sizes, there's a little bit more flexibility there. But the other reason I've been a big advocate of taking just one trade a day when you first start trading with real money is because it helps prevent you from spiraling. Even if you have a loss, you don't go on a spiral of taking 5, 10, 15 trades and just losing more and more and more and more and more. You have a loss and you stop right there and you're done, which is important. And if you have a winner, then that's great. And you start to build the track record of just one trade a day. It also makes it very easy to look over the last, you know, 10 days and see what's my accuracy, 10 trades, 80% that's awesome. But that's a contradiction with the other goal of gaining as much experience as possible. So if you're only gaining experience at the rate of one trade a day, it's going to take infinitely longer to accumulate, you know, thousands of trades of historical data. And that's where alpha phase comes in. So alpha phase is what you've probably already been doing to a certain extent. It's where you're just trading a ton and you might be trading a little bit of everything, testing out different strategies, testing out different techniques, practicing just pressing the button and getting comfortable with reading level 2 and seeing how the level 2 kind of is a precursor to whatever you see on the chart. So you develop this really interconnected relationship of what you see on level 2 then becoming what prints sort of on the chart. And so alpha phase is when you're just trading as much as you can just to gain experience, just to actively be trading in the market. And this is important. But then at a certain point we need to rain it in before we go live with real money, right? So this is these are the two phases that we're going to discuss here for day trading the basics. The first is the alpha phase. So the alpha phase is all about gaining experience. And as soon as you start practicing the better off, you'll be this allows you test the knowledge you've already gained during this course. And begin that hands-on process of converting knowledge to a skill, just because you've read a book about skydiving doesn't mean you have the skill to skydive. Just because you've watched the movie of the free cello climber who climbed to your somebody doesn't mean you have the skill to do the same thing. And just because you've watched this course on how to day trade doesn't mean you yet have the skill of how to trade. So or two trade. So what you need to do is you need to convert all of this knowledge that you've been absorbing into a skill and we do this by being hands-on. Just like if you're reading a book about anything, you know, carpentry. At a certain point you got to get your hands dirty and you got to start putting things together and you learn through that experience. So alpha phase is about getting comfortable using trading software, reading charts, using your scanners, using the level two, the time and sales and practicing your hotkeys. Once you're comfortable with software, once you understand sort of the the way all of this works, then it's time to begin implementing your first trading strategy and the setup that you're about to learn. So during so the small account trading plan that I would put together for alpha phase is to sit down at about 7am each morning to trade the pre-market news cycle, which occurs generally between 7am and 10am. Now if you're on a different time zone and you can sit down earlier, that's fine. If you're on a different time zone and you want to trade a little bit later or even into the afternoon or after hours, that's fine too. I find that I do the best between 7am and 10am, so it makes sense that that's the time that I would recommend focusing, but it's not exclusive to say that you couldn't trade during other times. You could still trade the same pattern that I'm going to share with you in the same setup during different times of day. When the idea here is to sit down and then to trade as long as possible, so the longer you can trade the more experience you can therefore gain each day. So when to stop trading, therefore during alpha phase is just when time constraints hit you when you have to walk away because you got something else to do. And the number of trades to take during the alpha phase, it's unlimited. There's no restrictions. What we want to focus now on making sure we're trading the right stocks each day stocks that meet our five pillars of stock selection and I'm going to actually reign that in and dial it in a little bit further to sort of a subset of stocks within this when I get into the strategy when it comes and so I maybe I should jump out of this for just one second and just add another another line here. I'll make this full screen. So stock type should meet all five pillars. Stock selection and then strategy strategy will be the day trading strategy for beginners focusing on first pullbacks with breaking news, which will be discussing in just a moment. So I'm just going to copy places and go down to their side attitude. And then the share size will be using essentially share size where the loss of 10 to 15 cents per share is completely negligible. So 100 shares for instance, that's a 10 to 15 dollar loss. Now this is all simulator, but you want to trade with the share size and the simulator that's the same as what you'll use when you go live with real money. So if you're trading with too much size like 10,000 shares, that's that's not a good idea. You really want to trade with the share size. It's quite small and it's totally negligible. So when you start trading with real money, you won't feel this surge of emotion and adrenaline and fear when you take a loss because we know losses will happen. So think right now, how much money can I lose where I really have no feeling about it? How much would you give to someone? I don't know, panhandling on the street and be like, what's fine? That's a dollar or $5. $20? I don't know. Whatever it is for you, probably not a hundred dollars, right? So five bucks, 10 bucks, whatever. That should then be the reference point of this is the share size I'm comfortable using. And the profit target for these trades will be about 20 cents per share and the max loss will be about 10 to 15 cents per share. Obviously, we will take a profit sooner if we see an exit indicator and I will sell sooner if it's not working and I'm going to share the exit indicators with you later in this section. And then the scaling strategy is just one entry and one exit we're going to keep it really simple. So this is the trading plan that I would follow during alpha phase. Sit down early, trade as long as possible, but focus only on trade and type of stocks that meet our five pillars and trading the setup that I'm going to share with you. But if you see 10 of those setups in one day, by all means trade all 10 of them. Okay, so then at a certain point you might start to think, I feel like I'm kind of doing well. I'm seeing that I'm making some money in the simulator or I'm certainly having some winners in the simulator. I have losers as well, but I think that I might be ready to go live. How do I test that out? And what do I want to do? So preparing to go a lot. is where we enter the beta phase, which is what I call the dry run for phase one. So phase one is real money, and the beta phase is just testing out whether or not you're ready for real money. So what we're going to do here is I'm going to paste this back in for strategy right there. So during beta phase, I rain in training to just take one trade per day. Trade the best leaves the rest. The goal is to build a track record of consistency and to avoid spiraling at all costs. So this is where I am going to rain in the time for me between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. that really is the sweet spot where I've historically done the best. I'm going to stop trading after taking the first trade. I'm going to limit myself to one trade a day. And I'm going to tell you guys right now, one trade a day, don't overcomplicate it. One trade a day, 20 cents per share, with 1,000 shares, that's 200 bucks, right? That's a good day. So if you were trading like this, and even if you had a loss of 15 cents, which is minus 150, but you can maintain 70% accuracy, 80% accuracy, this is sustainable. You will make money if you can maintain this profit to loss ratio. I mean, even this profit loss ratio with 50% accuracy, you will still make money. So if you do 10 trades, 10 days, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, whatever. And half of them are red, and you're down, you know, 5 times 150, so you're down 750 dollars. And sorry, what is that? Yeah, 5 times, yep. So 750 dollars. And then you've got 5 days here, 200. So 2 times 5, so you've got a thousand dollars here. Boom, you're up 250 dollars. And is this a tremendous amount of money? No, it's not. But this right here comes back to the blessing of the market. And the curse of the market is that you could spend years doing trial and error, trying to find a strategy that consistently produced, you know, let's say an average of, you know, five cents a day over the course of, you know, 10 days. You could spend years trying to find this strategy, just this small little edge. But once you have it, the difference between making $250 over this 10 day average, which is 25 a day just for instance, and making $250 a day, or $2,500 per day, is increasing your share size from $1,000 to $10,000. Well, let's just say for instance, all the way up to, you know, $100,000. And there's certainly time for, I've taken $100,000 shares. Now, if we're going to be honest, this is not the way we're going to scale up to making $2,500 a day. It's not to use $200,000 shares. There's a better way to do it. But just to kind of break down in simplistic, in very simple terms, that it's about scaling. And this is about proof of concept. And we've had many members here who have earned their badges, $500,000,000, million dollar badges, who said that when they first started, their daily goal was $5 a day average. Over 10 days, $100. That's it. And that right there was proof of concept. That told them that it's got something that's working. So, over the next 10 days, they increase their share size by 50%. Let's just say, from 100 shares to $150, I know it sounds percentage-wise big, but with share size, it's small. And then they go from $10 to $15 a day. And then they scale up to $200 shares. So, it's $250, you know, $350 and $500. And then they know $1,000. And now they're trading at $8,000 share positions, and they're making $100,000 a year, $200,000 a year. Then they've scaled it up. So, right now what we're trying to do is we're trying to get a hold of, we're trying to prove in your trading that you can maintain the consistency and a track record. You can master this strategy well enough to keep your head above water, to make a little bit of progress. That is where we find our hope. That's where things get excited. So, progressing to the beta phase does mean raining in the trading. However, here's a question. How do I keep gaining experience during beta phase? I don't want to just take one trade and then be done for the rest of the day. I could be trading if you've got the time. So then what I would say is that during the rest of the beta phase, what I would encourage you to do is track that one trade a day that's your beta phase trade separately. And then switch back to alpha phase for the rest of the day. Keep gaining experience. Keep trading stocks that meet your five pillars, our five pillars. Keep trading stocks that fall within the setup that I'm going to share with you, and keep gaining experience. This important is just that you track the beta phase trade separately, so you can see your performance, and you can use that to decide whether or not you're ready to trade with real money. And generally what I say is that if you have a 10 day cycle, once you have 10 days, where you're agreeing in beta phase, you're ready to test the water with real money using that same share size. So you're trading with 100 shares in beta phase. When you fund your account, you trade 100 shares with real money. And I know you're going to say, Ross, 100 shares is not going to pay the bills. Remember what I said at the beginning of this whole course. If you're coming in here saying, I need to pay these bills this week. There are better things you could do better ways to find consistent, predictable income. If you want a master trading, it takes time. So focus on the process. Profits are a five product. This is the right way to scale into trading and to size up. So keep gaining experience during beta phase by switching from the one trade a day and tracking it separately. So for trade reporting, this is what I use. For each trade you take during the beta phase. You're only taking one trade a day. So take the time to document each of these trades. Date and time, profit loss. It's profit loss in cents per share. Did it meet the five pillars? It sure better. Now I will say news is a little bit of a wild card. Sometimes we'll have markets where we're seeing really great opportunities. And they might not all have a fresh catalyst. So that's the one pillar that we can be a little flexible on. But the price, the percentage gain of the stock at the time you took the trade. The relative volume, the flow, use, news, yes or no. The time frame you used for looking for the set up, the pullback pattern. The interday candlestick pattern, which is ultimately going to be the first pullback. And then your hold time in seconds or minutes. And then you just print out a little screen grab of the chart and take some notes about your trades. And now what you want to do is you want to create a stack of these. You're going to have 10 of them before you go live with real money. But you'll probably have more. You may end up having to take 15, 20 beta phase days before you end up having a 10 day cycle where you're green. And then you do your weekly reporting week over week. All right. So again, taking the org, adding all of these trades in one trading, five trades a week. So adding them in and then, you know, totaling out your average winners, your average cents per share. Your average loser, profit loss ratio, and your total accuracy. So this is going to be done at the end of each week. So now each week, you've got to stack a five trades and you've got to stack your weekly reporting. This would be a course in a market where we're seeing ample opportunities. If the market is colder, and you may have the, you might call it misfortune, of beginning trading when the market is colder, it's possible you won't see an a quality set up each day that is worthy of taking your beta phase trade on. And while this is unfortunate, this is the ebb and flow of the market. We have ups and we have downs. In fact, you may find that you'll have one day where there's a lot of opportunities and it would in that case, for the sake of trading in a sim, makes more sense to take a lot of trades on that particular day, and then you might have very few trades on another day. And that is okay, and we will get to a point of trading with real money where you might take 10 trades on one day and 0 trades on the next. But the risk of doing that too soon is that you allow yourself to over trade, and allowing yourself to over trade is where you can fall into the traps of giving back profit and becoming emotionally hijacked. So for real money, even in a cold market, it really is best to stick with just one traded day. But as always, in the sim, you can be more active, and you can continue to gain experience even sort of the beta phase of taking additional trades. If the market is sort of suited where there's one stock with a lot of opportunities. Having said that, the strategy I'm going to share with you really does focus on trading right after the breaking news is released, because that's the time that I most predictably see the strongest price action. And so there's sort of a window there, where you can really get one good trade, being able to get two or three trades in that window, it is a tighter squeeze, it can be done, but it's a little tighter squeeze. So I think it's probably safe to say that if you're trading in a cold market, the beta phase will be more extended. You can still gain experience in alpha phase, you can still trade, you know, things that are moving, even if they're not super clean, just to study level two and get a better feel for it. But you will find that you'll essentially treat the cold market as training for when the market gets high. So you're just sort of on the sidelines training, getting ready, and then when the market starts to heat up, then you'll be able to start, you know, really building, building more of a track record. You know, so if, if best case scenario is you get yourself to a place where you've gotten through all of beta phase still during a cold market, so you were able to get a 10, 10 trading day cycle, even if it took 15 days to get 10 trades, that's fine, you've got a 10 trading cycle where you're not profitable. You switch to trading with real money with 100 shares. You get another 10 days, yes, it's cold market, maybe that lasts a month, whatever it is, and then once the market starts to heat up, you're already trading with real money. So now you're ready to capitalize. So you start seeing the winners are getting a little bit bigger, right? We're seeing more opportunities. So now you're getting a trade every day, and then you can start to scale up as you progress through phases, one, two, three, four, and five. Again, this is all about... proof of concept. It's not about making a lot of money. It's about proof of concept. Have you learn the strategy? Can you follow the rules of the strategy? That's where it gets excited. And so I've asked students over the years to send me, you know, their calendar, showing me how they have done during this beta phase. And as you could see, one traded day, $2.50 on day one. All right, it's not huge. Next day, $73.35, $18, $12, $10, $44, $5. And this was two trades. All right, so they took two trades on that day. Not sure what happened. Two trades on this day. But this ends up being a phenomenal proof of concept. Would you argue that you would have made more money working at McDonald's? You could argue that if you want, but this person is proving through this track record that they have something that we know can be scanned. And that's what's excited. You can only scale working at, you know, a fast food joint for so much. I mean, you could work your way up to a manager, et cetera. But we're trading. I've seen people who have had, you know, calendars, just like this, who a year later are getting their $500,000 batch. They're $750,000 batch. They're a million dollar batch. Now, remind or it's always, that's not a guarantee by any means. That's going to happen. But what's exciting here is that if you have the mental aptitude, if you have the emotional intelligence, when everything falls into place, this is your proof of concept as the foundation for something really exciting. So this is one student that's sent it over. This is another one. This one, you know, a few two trade days. But, you know, pretty consistently focusing on just one trade a day. And they may have had their own set of rule that if the one trade is a break even trade, maybe I'm allowed to take a second trade or whatever the case says, deviates a little bit from what I would recommend. But again, this one trade a day, except for a couple of two trade days, both the red days were two trade days. But a few other two trade days here and there. Here's another one, two trades. All right, eight trades. That's a little too much. Four trades, three trades. So this, this member went a little bit, you know, traded a bit more actively. kept the share size small, but traded definitely more actively. This one, one trade a day, one traded day, two trades, two trades, and one traded day. All right. So now that I've introduced the trading plan, let's talk about the strategy. Again, this is a strategy for beginner traders looking to build confidence. And it is a simple five step system. I try to keep this really simple. So the strategy is momentum trading on breaking news. It's my favorite strategy. And it's not great. It's not that it's great just for beginners. It's my favorite strategy even today for me as an experienced trader. It's my favorite strategy for small account challenges. It's my favorite strategy for making six figures in a single day. It's trading breaking news. This is where we historically, over all of my years in the market, have had the most opportunity. Now, what the news catalyst actually is varies, but catalyst occurs, stocks start spiking, buying the first pullback. Traders flock to the newest stock popping up. It's just the sentiment of the market. It's the way people react. And this is what gives us this really nice quality. So as we've already, you've already seen this slide, as we've been working our way through day trading the basics. From the very beginning, this is kind of condensing everything we've discussed. Focusing, certainly, on my strategy, stocks only. No forex, no futures, no crypto. Focusing on price between 2020 for greatest percentage gain potential. Trading only the long side, no short selling. Avoiding stocks are easy to borrow. Take no stocks are expensive to borrow and or have high levels of short interest. Price should already be up a minimum of 10% today. Stocks should have five times relative volume. Stocks should ideally have a news catalyst. Sometimes the catalyst isn't news. Short interest or some other catalyst that can work, but typically we want to have news. The stocks have a float of less than 20 million shares and the stocks should be obvious. Again, this isn't just my opinion of, you know, as a college professor of what I think would probably work in the real world, but I haven't been in the real world in a million years. So I'm just teaching the theory of the stock market. I'm actually sharing with you what has been true in my experience all the way to today. So this is what works consistently for me. It's just tried and true. It's based on real historical data. So essentially this entire course, this data right here is kind of our North Star. This data is what this course explains. How I was able to produce that total gain. How I was able to maintain 68.5% accuracy over the course of a decade. This is how many trades, 33,000 trades and a 33,000 trade. I mean, a lot of these trades are bundled together where it's an ad ad ad ad take profit. Ad ad ad take profit. That's considered one trade from one entry to one exit. Even though the total trade was substantial. And so in terms of the profitability by time of day, right, profitability in the morning, we know that profitability by price and volume. We know this. This is not just a guess in the dark. It's not a shot of, you know, maybe this would work. This is actually what really works in a real world. And so we'll just back this up now for with you get it. So what we're going to do for beginner traders here is we're going to dial in stock selection criteria. And because as you know, we've got the outline of the five pillars of stock selection. But what I want to do is I want to try to increase our likelihood of success as much as possible. And what I found is that there are certain types of stocks within the five pillars that are going to be a little bit more forgiving and have more potential and others that are be a bit less forgiving. So we have our five pillars here. And then I'm noting that while five x is the minimum for relative volume, 10 x is better. While being up 10% is a good minimum, being up already 50% is better. The news catalyst, and again, I'm just going to believe that as it is. Price between two and 20 is good. Extra focus on price between five and 10. Right, float below 20 million is good, but extra focus on float of under five million. So if we had a stock for instance that had a 19.99 million share float was price at 19 dollars and 99 cents a share was up 10% with just five times relative volume, it would technically meet our five pillars but in kind of the worst way. Whereas if we had a stock that had a 1 million share float that was priced at $7 a share and was up 60% of the day with 10 times relative volume, that's obviously going to be a stock that's going to produce higher rewards. So within the five pillars, our five pillars scan here for our five pillars of stock selection, you're going to have the outliers and then you're going to have the ones that are sort of like producing the biggest gains and producing the highest quantity of trades and it's going to be a bell curve. And so, you know, at a certain point, you know, we drew the cut off and we drew the cut off at 20 here. It doesn't mean you won't sometimes see in price that I trade stocks are higher and make money. It doesn't mean there aren't sometimes opportunities to trade stocks below $2 and make money, but they're the outliers. And so even within the five pillars, we've already had to cut in a little bit which excluded some trades naturally. Anytime you add filters, you're excluding some opportunities with a goal of increasing your accuracy. So by even just dialing it like this, I probably increase my accuracy from like 55% to, you know, 68% which is what it is now. But what I'd like to do is try dial it in even further to this sort of sweet spot here, which is the area where I might be at more like 75%, right? So, again, I can introduce some lower quality trades up here and given my intuition and my experience, I could probably produce profit. But as you begin her, it seems to make sense to focus on kind of the sweet spot here. I'm going to throw you a curveball. Let's think about apple orchard stuff. All right, so I've got one of the things that I wanted to do when I bought this house was start planting an orchard. So apples, fruit tree, you know, and peaches, and pears, those are the primary ones I have. I've got a couple others, but apples, peaches and pears. And so we all love honey crisp apples. They're the best. And so I have a friend who's got an orchard up in Vermont. He's probably got a thousand acres, maybe more. Huge orchard. And I said, you know, I'm thinking about planting honey crisp apples. And he said, you're to do that. Don't do that. They're really hard to grow. They're really hard to grow. Even for me, he's like, I'm a, this is what I do. And they're really hard to grow. You've got to spray them a lot. They're stubborn. I know they're popular, but they're hard to grow. And you know what, half the time when we grow them, we end up losing half our crop anyways. And it's really frustrating. It's a frustrating fruit. And he said, you're, you're better off, growing. There's tried and true, uh, str, varieties that you're better off growing. And they're not the, you know, the honey crisp apple, but, you know, they might not be the fancy thing, but you're going to get a better yield. And it's going to be more rewarding. And maybe it's good apples for making apple sauce and doing other stuff. And so I said, you know what, um, that's a, that's good feedback, but I know what I'm doing. I'm planting the honey crisp. Guess what? It's been more than five years of these honey crisp apples. And I have produced a total right now of three edible apples, three edible apples, from four honey crisp apple trees. These things are suffering. And it's embarrassing. And I don't want to go back to him and say he was right, but he was right. So, and none of you, I'm not going to, tell you his name because I don't want any that to get back to him. This is a think about patient doctor confidentiality. Right here we have teacher student confidentiality and what I say doesn't leave this room. Got it? So that's that and I mean that from the bottom of my heart. This is not leave this room. So with that said, I'm saying the same thing when it comes to the strategies and with the stock selection. We got to dial it in a little bit which I think is preferable as a beginner. Just to rain this in a little bit to the area where it with highest probability. It doesn't again, it's not a guarantee of success but it's going to improve the statistics. And your honey crisp apples are over here. You know these are your wild card. It's fun, it's great. And if you can master this and add in a couple of these but get the basics down first. Otherwise you're going to spend five years like I have going out and looking at these trees every day and just thinking, I'm not going to get anything from this. This is a waste of my time. All right, so this is our checklist for stock selection. And again, obviously, if it is obvious, we'll perform better. So that means it should be one of our top three to five leading gainers in the market. And unfortunately, some days the leading gainers are penny stock and I don't like it or it's a high price stock or it's got the wrong float. But usually, more often the not the leading gainers fall well within the strategy where I trade the best. So next, it's important to create a good workspace. And this is kind of just, as I begin to introduce this strategy to you, obviously, rating and stock selection support, having a quiet workspace is important. I remember going on a vacation earlier in my career as probably in year two, and I was on Cape Cod and I was with my mom and my aunt. And I was on my laptop trading in a living room. And my aunt kept coming and looking over and said, oh, what do you do? And oh, what's that? What's that? And it was impossible to focus. And ended up having starting to go red. And then I was like, this is embarrassing. And, oh, I can't go red. And I realized, I really need to be able to have a quiet space when I'm trading. A quiet space without interruptions where I can really focus. Treating this like a business, I think is important. Sitting on the couch, trading while you're watching Netflix, while the kids are running around behind you, that is not a quiet space. Now, you will see my kids from time to time to my office on sick days and things like that during the summer. And, you know, I've told them it's important that they're quiet and trying not to interrupt me too much. But, especially at the beginning, it's important to have quiet space. It's also important to surround your workspace with printed out charts of this first pullback pattern, then we'll be sharing with you today, and routinely update them with latest examples. What you're doing is you're surrounding yourself a visual cues of the setup that you're searching for. If you were in a deer stand, you would have pictures of deer all around the inside of deer state. You want to surround yourself, right? It's manifesting. You want to know what you're looking at. And so, they're kind of doing the same thing here. We're surrounding ourselves with the imagery that we're looking for it. And because one of the things I'll tell you, for me, when I was first getting started, I remember this, you know, even to this day, that it would be easy to see a pattern like this in hindsight. I could see it in hindsight, but as it was happening, I couldn't see it. It's like, so, but this is the challenge of trading, is that when you're trading, you have to see this and visualize what's coming next, right? So, if I go like that. So, now, what do you do? Do you just buy in the middle of that green candle? Well, we can't do that. It's red, it's dropping and it can't buy here. And then it's still dropping even more. I can't buy here. I can't buy here. And now, I can't buy in the middle of this green candle. So, being able to get to the point where you can visualize what's coming next is really important. And it's easier to do that when you've got five charts around you that look like this. So, now you see, okay, here we go. Check, check, check. It's looking right. We've got the volume profile, high volume green candles, lower volume red candles, volume starting to come back in. We've got the MACD, we've got the volume profile, you know, everything is starting to line up right here. And so, it's really important to surround yourself with these examples because it helps, I think it helps your brain connect the, you know, this is how it could potentially look. And then, of course, you want to have printed out your trading plan. And I'm a big advocate of using sticky notes for important reminders. I put them over my P&L. So, I see them before I start trading that day, sometimes I hide my P&L. So, I can focus just on the process and not on the product or not on the profit. And so, these are kind of important, you know, housekeeping items for getting started. So, now this is the simple five step system. Step one, finding a stock using our scanners, step two, checking the catalyst, step three, checking the daily chart, the internet chart, step four, checking level two, step five executing the trade using the first pullback, candlestick chart pattern, use the five steps. Now, of course, there's a six step, I suppose, which would be documenting the trade and doing your reporting as per the trading plan. But I think that, I sort of separate that from the five steps of executing the trade. So, these are five steps directly related to executing the trade, and that's what makes this strategy. Every morning, I do a pre-trading checklist to ask myself, am I in the right mental head space to trade? Is that E-well, that sleep well, am I in a good mood? What's the condition in your room market? My strategy, have the last few days to our trade agreement. And I'm approaching that to make quality set up by the end of next month, you're so poor. So, I can remember times where I'm trying to Europe. I would be able to get over this one. I don't know if that's there, and it would be, you know, I guess settled in to the hotel room, and it's like noon time, and it works for two-three in the afternoon, Italy, and they go, jeez, I guess, about nine more days. In the work, pop open the laptop, and start punching the keys, eyes are red, I'm gonna try to block the vaccine now, when the patient comes and down, $10,000, he is very E-T for us to do that to over this one. And I'm going to recommend this crew impact. All of it, you know, just the, you know, the fact of the flight, you know, we have a day where everything won't run now. You know, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the Mmory fluid crazy innhurgeoning, you know, you when we get to the minutes, there's a world of this serial. We have a Dusk Burke, you know, you're, you can cook, you can cook... ... Caesar, Alice, what has written in here... ... there's the, if we can fix the system, about time you find what's in there up here at the... ... You're in attack. That's not a good headspace, it's my idea. So, in a way, being a trader is very much like being a professional athlete. People say it's smell of time, they're like, Ross, you know, you're just like, Tom Brady. You and Tom Brady are basically the same person. And I say, I know. I've been saying that for years. You both have to perform at your best, and your only good is your last game. It's true. So, every day when you sit down, you're coming into the market. You're competing against high frequency trading algorithms, just to a certain extent. You're taking risk. And if these risks don't go well, you can get really badly jammed up. And so, you need to be able to perform at your best each day. It is a performance sport. You will, you know, you'll eat what you catch. And that is, that can be really tough. Because life and circumstances can affect your ability to perform at your best. And some of those things are sort of at your control. You know, having young children, you know, whatever the case says, it's all an influence. So, you've got to kind of give yourself a little bit of grace to say, all right, you know what? Today, it's not happening. You know, and I just need to give myself the, okay, slow down. And today is just going to be a day and a simulator. I'm not going to try to do my real money trade today. I'm not going to try to do my bait of phase trade today. It's just, I'm just going to do some. I'm just going to get a spirit of, or I'm just going to go through the classes. Watch the live trading archives. So, all right. So now you've done your pre-trained checklist. And let's just say you're feeling great. You're in a good spot. Awesome. That's what I like to hear. So step one, finding the a stock with momentum. Type up. All right. So finding the a stock with momentum. And I meant to do that. I was testing you to make sure you're reading well, no. And you are. So congratulations. Step one, finding a stock with momentum. This is, this is the easiest part. And when I first got started, this was not the easiest part. When I started trading, I didn't have these tools to find stocks at the moment. I had no idea. It was, I mean, and then I suppose we get a trader first coming to the market, would maybe feel equally today. But there are a lot of resources. And of course you guys have all of these resources right at your fingertips. So number one is finding a stock with momentum. So here we go. AT&F. This stock right now is up. 564 percent. Holy smokes. This thing is moving. We've got a, 58 million shares of volume as of right now, and 930,000 share flow, 3,600 and 4 times above average volume. Everything about this stock looks good. It is moving. How well does it meet our five pillars of stock selection? Well, it's pretty much a perfect fit. It couldn't really be better. Now you could argue the stock is already up too much at this moment right now, and I wouldn't disagree with you. We've already missed the first pullback in the beginning of the move. Let's say this hit the scanner earlier on when it was down here first popping up. That would have been the spot that we wouldn't really start paying attention to. So it was actually back here at 8am, 804. When it first hit the scanner, $3 a share, light volume at the time, but the 900,000 share flow and already 14 times relative volume. Yeah, that's definitely something that we want to pay attention to, and it looks like there actually was a headline here on this at 8am. So we've got the news, so this meets all five pillars, and let's say at this moment right here, you know, we were already coming to the table saying, we're in a pretty hot market. We've been seeing stocks back to back day after day going up 50, 100% or more. So we're already tuned to be a little bit more aggressive, right? So then we see this hit the scan, and because it meets the five pillars so closely, this is where I'm going to make the educated guests, especially as I see the relative volume jump from 14 up to 100, that this stock likely will have extremely high relative volume. And we have extremely high relative volume, it's indicative of a big imbalance between supply and demand. These are the types of stocks that can make really big moves. So of course coupled with, you know, my analysis and me providing the live commentary in the room, you see this stock, you hear me talking about, you're like, okay, here we go. This is the stock that meets our five pillars, it's moving up the scan. Maybe there's already another stock that's up 100%, or 500%. That could be our leading gainer, but maybe that's stock we missed the move. This is the next one, and we know how traders will jump to the next stock that meets that profile in a similar way. So then we pull up the chart and we're looking at this. So step one is finding a stock with momentum, and making sure it meets our five pillars, a stock selection meets them well, and this again requires that sort of momentary analysis of what is the current condition of the market? What's the current profile of the stocks are making the biggest moves? So let's talk about that profile for just a second. So what we know is that when we have a big momentum stock, right? It's typically a stock that usually within the five pillars of stock selection, typically it's a pretty low flow, even within the unemployment, it might be like a 1.5 or 2.5 million share flow. And it's typically a stock that ends up going up like 400%. It absolutely explodes a thousand times relative volume. Yes, it has a news catalyst, and the price is typically between 0.5 and 7. Or maybe maybe even a little higher when it first starts. Sometimes a little bit lower, but often within that window is when I do really well. But then it has these sort of additional variables. And it might be recent reverse split, or recent IPO, or, you know, theme. And so it could be an AI catalyst. It could be a cryptocurrency catalyst. You can't really do that very well, but you got the idea. It could be a cryptocurrency catalyst. During the pandemic, for instance, we kept seeing companies that had these catalysts where, you know, they were coming out with COVID testing or, you know, I mean, of course, before they had a vaccine, it was just like, can we test it? Can we test it? Rapid testing? Testing in airports. So, you know, they were these companies putting out testing. And then there was this and then that. And so we had all that during the pandemic. So it's like there's always kind of, you know, the latest flavor or theme that comes and goes. So when we have, when we have a stock that's made a big move, I usually take that stock and kind of create this profile. And I say, you know, what was the profile of the stock that made the big smooth? What was the price it started at? And, you know, then what were these additional variables? And then this becomes basically my, you know, wanted poster of what I'm looking for, right? I'm looking for this. And so is everybody else, because we know this is what just gave us a huge move. So when the next stock pops up on our scanners, the question is, how well does it fit within the current theme, within the current profile? And sometimes the profile or the theme is as simple as it's a stock with a sub 1 million share flow. And it could be in any sector. But if it's got a sub 1 million share flow, it's going to get more attention. Because the last stock that made the big move was sub 1 million. Or it's got a recent reverse split. Doesn't matter what sector it's in, doesn't matter what the company does. But it's a recent reverse split where we're seeing big moves. Or it's got high levels of short interest. So whatever the current theme is, now I will say as a beginner trader, when you first sit down in the market, you first come in. You don't have your bearings yet. So it's hard to have a sense of what is the current theme. You know, what is working, what was the last was the was the current profile? And that's, again, the benefit of being in a community, you could go away for six months, you could go on some excursion, you know, motorcycle trip around the world, whatever you want to do. So I mean, crazy, you come back and it's like, okay, guys, what's the theme? What's working right now? And you can get synced right back in, and so then you know what the theme is. So finding a stock with momentum, step 1, and confirming it meets our five pillars, and also meets the more dialed in five pillars, which I think is better. And then just having some sort of, you know, trying to thought of how closely does a stock fit within the current theme? Is the stock truly obvious? You know, is it the number one leading gainer? So I'll just make a couple more notes on here. So does the stock fit within the current theme or profile? Does the stock, does the stock have the potential to be the number one most, not profitable? A stark, sorry Google. Let me, let Google, why don't you leave the writing to me? All right? You, you just have to maintain the slide deck. You let me take care of the ideas. How does the stock, does the stock have the potential to be the number one most obvious? Stock today. All right. So once we've found a stock that looks interesting, then it's what's the catalyst? Why is this stock moving? Right? So we can do all, we can do four pillars of stock selection, just based on the scammer. But that fifth pillar, I mean, we can confirm we've added the flame into it. So we can confirm this was before the flame was added. But we can confirm it's got a flame, so it does have news. But then, you know, really figuring out what is the catalyst? And what is the catalyst that's driving the stock higher? Sometimes it matters, sometimes it doesn't. And this is the thing that can be a little bit confusing for beginner traders. Sometimes you'll have a stock, the catalyst doesn't really sound that exciting. The thing goes up to 300%. Sometimes you have a stock with no news that goes up to 300%. Sometimes you have a stock that sounds like it's got great news, and it goes down 30%. How is that possible? So one challenge, as we talked about with fundamental analysis, is that it's hard for us to have the context of every company, right? We are in the habit as active retail traders, of trading different stocks on any given day based on what's moving. So we don't know these companies inside and out. So when we see a headline, it might initially read well, and we think, oh, that's a good headline, but if you really have the full context, you would recognize that, well, you know, that headline that their earnings are up, 200% year over year is actually bad, because they projected they'd be up 500% year over year. Or whatever the case says. So when you have context, you realize it's not as good as you thought it was. So I like to confirm there is a headline. I like to read it, and so I can understand what it is. And I also like to check a little bit of the fundamentals of the company, including the sector and where they're located. So, you know, we have since added a little bit more data to that window, and we continue to build out, you know, even more, but let's say, like this stock here that's up, you know, right now, 206%. So we can see the country code, it's in the United States, and we can see the sector, healthcare, medical diagnostics and screening. And so then that adds a little bit of a little bit more color, and a little bit more context. So I try to give myself a little bit more context. I'm not going to pull up the SEC filings at this point. This is just the point of the stock is hit my scanner. Perhaps it hit on the top gainer scanner. Perhaps it just hit right here on our small cap high day momentum scanner, which is the case, often we're breaking news. So this is where it first hits right here, and then the stock is repeatedly hitting as it's making new highs. We click on it. We pull it up. The chart is now showing a green candle, and we're checking the details of the company. So step two is check the catalyst, and just try to understand what's driving the stock higher. While I would prefer news, we know that in a really hot market, if a stock is obvious, and it is one of the leading gainers. But it does not have news, it still can be worth considering. So, just as a side note there. Step three, checking the daily chart. Now, I say step three is checking the daily chart. I don't know, maybe I can be persuaded if you want to twist my arm that I would change just to step four. And I would move step three right here. So let's just do a quick switcheroo. I'm going to say check the intro day chart first. And I'm just thinking, I'm just sort of, you know, on the fly changing this. But I'm thinking about, as I was just looking at that chart, the daily chart was not the first thing I was checking. The first thing I was checking was the one minute. I was looking at the one minute chart. Then the tenth, you know, I was looking really at the one minute. Then glancing at the five minute, glancing at the ten second. And here's why. When a stock first hits our scanner. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. I'm not checking the daily chart first. The first thing that I'm actually looking at. Well, of course, again, after we've done stock selection and we check the catalyst, is I'm looking at the intro day chart. Because I want to see whether or not this thing is actually moving up. Sometimes what will happen is in an instant, you know, the stock pops up right here. And this is maybe the ten second chart. So ten second chart, it pops up in the instant. And then before I even had chance to pull up the level two, it's immediately rejected. And then I don't need to proceed any further. I don't need to check the daily chart. It's just, well, that's not happening. So what I need to see is, you know, squeezing up and squeezing higher. And when I see that, you know, big green candle. Second, big green candle. That's like getting excited. And as I'm seeing that, what's happening is each time the stock is hitting a new high. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. So now I'm getting the sensory of the audio notification that's telling me something is moving quickly. So even if I wasn't in front of my computer, when I hear that rapid succession of ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. I know that I need to get to in front of my computer is quickly possible. And I want to click on the stock, and I want to look at the chart. Because clearly the stock is moving. Now again, that does depend on which scanner it's alerting. If the stock ends up ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. 28 million share of float and a $50 share of stock. And I probably don't care about it as much. You know, so much so that I might say maybe I should just go ahead and take off the audio notifications for medium float high relative volume. And I turn them off. I don't even want to hear it. But for the ones that are, this is actionable, moving, and probably something I would very likely consider trading. I keep the audio alert turned on. So I check the intro day chart, five minute one minute ten second. When you have breaking news, the five minute is just one big green candle. So it's not going to really show you anything. You've got breaking news. It's popping up. The one minute in the first minute, it should show the same thing. A big green candle. The ten second is going to show six candles. One, two, three, four, five, six, six, ten, second, candles for one minute. And then when we start to get that first little pullback, that's usually when I'm getting interested. So step three, we're going to modify to being checking the intro day chart. The checklist for the intro day chart is the stock should be squeezing up right now. Therefore, it should have a long body green candles. The volume profile should be higher volume on the buying candles versus the selling candles. We want to check for the presence of any large topping tails. We want to check for the presence of any jackknife or rejection candles. Sometimes, it could be, for instance, that by the time the stock is hitting our scanners here, that maybe earlier it had popped up a little bit, maybe, and then, you know, sold off. So maybe there is actually a topping tail candle from back here. And we're like, oh, so it's coming back up. Now it's hitting a new high of day, right, a new high of day. But previously a topping tail, you know, maybe that's not desirable, or maybe here it popped up and then, you know, was a rejection and then it came like way back down. So if we saw the chart already had that, you know, that might be a problem. When something first hits our high day scanner, we don't know inherently from that alert. Was it on the scanner earlier? Or is this the stock's very first ever being on the high day scanner? Not to say we couldn't add that as a column, but how many times it's alerted. And maybe it is more interesting when it's the first alert. You know, that's when it's like, this is the first move. So take that, you know, with additional contacts, or this is the 75th time it's hit the scanner here. Because it hit so many times here, and maybe one more time, like right here at the top of that candle, and now it's doing it again. That is something I could consider, right? I don't want to add too many columns because it gets hard to read. But I would check, and again, you could check this just looking at the chart very briefly, is there a history of topping tails. So in this stock hit the scanners right in this area, you know, it already had been on the scanners a bunch of times, right? So wouldn't mean you couldn't trade it, but it's just helpful contacts. Check the intradet chart pattern, we look for topping tails, we look for rejections, jackknit candles, and for potential ascending or descending support and resistance. So sometimes when you have a level like this, for instance, you know, you connect those two highs, as we talked about in chapter five of technical analysis, and that's going to draw forward, oops, I didn't draw completely straight. But that's going to create an ascending resistance line. If it was a little bit different from that, and let's say this candle was to hear, then you might have a descending resistance line connecting the top of those two candles, like that. So a little bit of descending resistance there. You might have a ascending support. So that's all going to be the case when a stock has had more activity. But when we're trading a stock that has fresh, breaking news, oh, is my whiteboard a little bit out of focus. When we're trading a stock that has fresh, breaking news, right in this moment here, there won't typically be any ascending or descending resistance yet, because it's fresh, which is fine. I don't want to say that as part of the this strategy that I'm teaching you is exclusive to only trading this setup in the first five minutes after breaking news, you can trade it as it continues higher. But typically that first pull back after breaking news is the strongest. So you know, again, keep that in mind. And then step four is where we check the daily chart. Because if the intradade chart doesn't check out, you don't even need to bother checking the daily chart. So I don't check the daily chart first. I actually check it second. Even though you might think you should check high level, but actually my workflow is actually a check the intradade. And then I come back and check the daily chart. And the daily chart will show me the resistance to the 200 moving average, right? And that's the main thing I'm looking at. That's why I keep it pretty small. Where's 200 moving average? That's all I need to see. If I can see that, I'm usually good. Do you setting resistance lines, ascending resistance lines? Don't really matter when you have very high relative volume. They don't matter. So the stock will blow right through those levels. The 200, you can still blow through the 200 if you've got high relative volume. So even that doesn't matter if the volume is high enough. But it is good to be aware of the position of the 200. Okay. Step number five. This is where I pull up my level two. And this is where we get ready to execute the trade. So whether you're using the simulator or our simulator or using a different simulator, you want to make sure you've got your level two set up, so you can pull it up. And this is what I'm checking on the level two. So easy to borrow. Hard to borrow. Short sail restriction status. Right? So T, it's on threshold. You can't borrow it. L, locate, it's hard to borrow. You can locate it. Maybe you get shares. I'll pull up while I don't have my level two right now. But if this had a big green E, that would be easy to borrow. And then if this says SSR or CB, the stock is on short sail restriction. Then we can check to see if it's marginable or non-marginable. That is based on what you're seeing here in terms of percentage. Now one note is that this is a step that, in the simulator, our simulator currently, as of right now today, is not connected to a clearing firm. And it's the clearing firm that determines if something is marginal. And in fact, it's the clearing firm that decides if it's easy to borrow or hard to borrow. So those are data points that you have access to with a real trading account. But you don't have access to insimulators, because a simulator is not connected to a specific broker. And the easy to borrow, hard to borrow, is very from broker to broker. So that's something just to be aware of. You can certainly, I guess your work around would be either number one. You'll notice people comment in the chat room when something is easy to borrow, because usually it means we're not going to be as interested in it. If you see people say, oh, it's easy to borrow, then you know it's easy to borrow. You could have another platform open, which is real money that shows easy to borrow, hard to borrow. But then the challenge there is that are using a broker that's commonly used by other traders, or using one that's more obscure. For instance, if you use even just think or swim, think or swim makes almost everything hard to borrow. So that's not a great gauge. Um, however, some of the smaller boutique brokers, certainly like light speed, will, will have some easier borough stocks that are, uh, that are small caps. So that one, for me, has been a pretty good indicator of whether or not a stock is going to have a lot of, uh, resistance. So for the short term, I'd probably say the easiest thing would just be to ask in the chat room or see what people are saying, because usually people will voluntarily type, oh, that's easy to borrow. It's no good. Just a caution to other people. So step four is check the daily chart, step five, check your level two, and the next to you to trade. So easy to borrow, hard to borrow, short-sale restriction, marginable, non-marginable, then the spread between the bid and the offer. Right? So if we've got a bigger spread, this one's a, you know, 12 cents spread. That's not nothing. That's a bigger spread. And then the presence of big buyers on the bid, or big sellers on the ask, the presence of stacked buyers, where, you know, you've got four buyers all at the same price, and one, only one seller at that price. You know, that's bullish when it's, a the other way, it's a little bit more bearish. So the level two communicates sentiment, both in the spread, the stack of buyers, and the presence of big sellers or big buyers. And then what do we look for? Green on the time and sales to indicate buying. So the time and sales is our tape right here. So when we see bursts of green, that support that shows buying, that's where I have conviction, that's what I like. Now when it comes to actually executing the trade, that's where we need to get into a power. And this is the setup that I'm going to focus on. It is my favorite setup hands down. It's buying the first pullback and or a micro pullback just after breaking news. Number one, or just after a stock has spiked up and hit the high they scanner. So this can be two scenarios. One is we have breaking news right here. It's 8 AM, 839 AM, top or bottom of the hour, right? So it really can be any time pre-market, but top and bottom of the hours when we're most likely to see breaking news. So, you know, 4, 4, 35, 5, 30, 6, 6, 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 9, etc. So top and bottom of the hour, sometimes news comes out at the quarter, so 8, 15, 8, 45. It can happen. Sometimes news gets dropped in a usual time like 7, 38 and whatever, okay. So the first thing that happens, when the news comes out, the stock hits the high demo and some scanner, ding ding ding ding ding ding, we click on it, we pull it up, we see a big green candle, we check our daily chart, that looks good, we've already checked the catalyst, we see it's got one, fine, we're now looking at the level 2, the spread is tight, it looks pretty decent, now and looking for a first pullback. So as it first rallies up here, even on the 10 second chart, the one minute chart is just a big green candle. But the 10 second chart will show one 10 second candle, a second 10 second candle, so then a red 10 second candle, another red one, another red one and we're looking for the first one to make a new high, and that is the earliest entry you could possibly get. So within potentially 40 seconds or a minute of the breaking news coming out, you could potentially be getting your first pullback. Sometimes you'll have four or five green candles before it pulls back, sometimes it's only a couple, if it's only one 10 second green candle, it already is giving a red candle, that's where I get a little nervous, so we do I check the volume profile, is it low volume buying and high volume selling, because then that's indicating that's probably going to come all the way back down, but if it's high volume buying, lighter volume selling, we're looking for the first candle to make a new high. So watching the level 2, watching the spread, low down here is our stop, so we want to risk 10 15 cents per share stop roughly, profit target 20 cents per share, so we have the 2 to 1, and then if that supports, if the risk analysis supports taking the trade, I execute the trade, so I execute based on looking for the first candle to make a new high. So here's an example, we get this rally up right there, and that pullback dips down one candle and two candles, this is a one minute chart in the background, right here So it went to a high of about $4, half dollar whole dollar, very common level of resistance. We then dip down, that's the low, first candle making a new high. Do I set my stop all the way at the low? The answer is, while that's the correct low of the pattern, it's too far away to get a 2 to 1 profit loss ratio. So I said an arbitrary stop, probably closer, let's see entry here looks like it's about 78, so stop down here is probably like 68, so 65, so probably a 15 cents stop on this with a 30 cent profit target, and then that would have been a move back up to about 4 10. It ends up first candle makes a new high, and we rally up and look at this. The first move, volume is increasing, but volume is increasing, which is great, but a lot traders wisely are not feeling comfortable jumping in. Need to wait for first pullback to manage risk. So following that first pullback, even more volume comes in on the next like higher, because that was your first really safe opportunity. And that's why the first pullback gives you typically the best resolution. I like the first pullback, I like the second pullback, I don't want to push it too much beyond there. So now if we look at this in animation, so let's imagine. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. So all of a sudden, stocks hit the scanner. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. And then ding ding, one more time, as it hits a new high there, and then the scanners are quiet. It's pulling back. So we heard the alert. As soon as we heard the alert, ding, ding, ding, ding. We pulled up the chart. So was that look like we click on the scanner alert right there. We already as we click on it, we're reading what the price is, what the flow is, the volume, the relative volume. We see if there's news. We look at the chart, right? Check the one minute, check the 10 second. We're seeing that big green candle forming. We glance at the daily chart. Okay, we're above the 200. We're good there. And now we're watching pullback. So these are probably 10 second candles. We're looking at the level two. Let's say this spreads our two bad. High is 420. Low down here is 370. Whatever 360. First candle goes green. Okay, that's good. Support down there. That would be the low. We're looking for the first candle that can make a new high. So now, not just being green, but this next candle making the new high is a confirmation. And then there we go. That's the entry right there. Rise that candle breaks the new high. So remember, we'd be paying close attention to the time. Right? So we know candles open and close at the top of the minute. Now this is a 10 second candle, so it's every 10 seconds. So in fact, once it starts showing green here, and we start seeing the green on the tape. Right? Boom, boom, boom, boom, all that green going through. I'd probably be jumping in right around the close of this current candle to anticipate this next candle is going to make a new high. Target is a retest of high today for a 2 to 1 property loss ratio or 1 to 2 here in terms of risk to reward. All right, so we take the trade. The psychology behind this pattern is that the rapid move up attracts traders. Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. Traders are drawn to it. It's Pavlovium. It's very emotional. It's very basic, but this is the reality. This is especially true when the move is driven by breaking news. Because we know that breaking news can result in these big moves, and then go up, not just 10, 15, 20%. They can go up 50% 100% 500% or higher. The first pullback, therefore, formed by a little bit of profit taken from people, maybe holding before the news came out and possibly a little bit of early short selling. So it squeezes up, maybe some people chased it right as soon as it started popping, pretty risky, but I should say they did. You think if that first red candle pulls back a little bit. And now it's a moment of truth. Does it unwind completely and drop all the way back down? Or does it hold this level? If it holds, then it stops going down and starts curling back up. So, if it holds at least 50% of the initial move up, right? That was what we kind of said, it's got to hold at least 50% of the move up. I'm not saying there won't be some instances where something pulls back and holds 40% and then it still ends up working. But 50% generally I prefer. Have there been times where a stock goes up, comes back 100% and gives back the entire move and then goes back up later. I've seen it happen before. It's not as common. So, I don't expect it and I'm not going to plan for that. If it holds 50% in the move up, that's where traders who are long by us begin buying the pullback and short start to cover at the high days, the price makes a second push higher. This is especially true when the pullback finds support around the half dollar or the whole dollar. That's the sort of logical level that we would look for a dip. Not to say that we're buying while it's stock is still dropping, but that's where we'd expect to hopefully see support. And then it starts to curl back up and we're seeing green on the tape that first candle making the new high over candle over candle is where we'd like to take the entry. So, I'll typically buy the first pullback and second pullback of a pattern. I will do that on the 10 second chart. So, first pullback on the 10 second chart, breaking news right here, just for instance, it pulled back. Pushes higher. So, I buy right here. For the first candle making the new high, I sell usually when I see resistance and exit indicator. We'll talk about in a minute. So, let's say I'm selling right there. It dips down again. And at that point, we don't know if it's going to come all the way back down or if it's going to hold and the squeeze is back up. First, candle making the new high on the second pullback. I'm back in right there. Looking for the push higher. This is a 10 second chart. So, then what does the one minute chart look like? Well, the one minute chart, if we just show in line, has one, two, three, green one minute candles. So, then we will... Okay, for one minute pull back, and we trade the first one minute pull back. Now, a one minute pull back, this is going to be 12, 10 second candles. So during the one minute pull back, it's very possible that the 10 second could be doing another pattern, such as an ABCD pattern, where the one minute, the 10 second, sorry, pull back, and then it dipped down again, a little bit, then it kind of comes back up, and you know, right here, starting to break out. So let's just say that's 12, 10 second candles. And that's forming the first one minute pull back. So I could take one trade here, two trades here, one trade on the one minute here, that's a number, sorry, number three, and then we get another pull back up here, which is another one minute pull back, and that's trade number four. So I could potentially get four trades on this. Two on the 10 second, first pull back, second pull back, and two on the one minute, first pull back, second pull back. Again, when you're experiencing these pullbacks on the one minute chart, you can still be looking at your 10 second chart, but you'll just notice that it's a slightly more sustained pullback. It's not a first pullback, it's more of an ABCD pattern. So now we move to the higher time frame. Could you do this yet again on the five minute chart? What's the five minute chart show? For this whole stretch right here, the five minute chart is showing two green, five minute candles, one, and two. So then you could have a sustained five minute pullback. However, typically in a really strong market, by the time this is pulling back on the five minute, it's so extended, off its nine moving average, that it ends up fading quite a bit more. So it ends up coming back down too much. So I really focused on the first pull back on the 10 second, and the first pull back on the one minute, which means in a good scenario, I'm a really nice setup, I'm going to get at least four good trades. I might get more, but at least four good trades. So for you, the focus is, can I get one of these trades that's my beta trade for the beta test to go live or phase one, and then the rest of them I'm going to keep trading is part of alpha phase, just to keep practicing, right? So you want to trade all of them, but you want to have your one trade a day that's part of the beta phase. So you get 10 days of one trade a day, you get a month of one trade a day, you then go live with real money, one trade a day, you've now got a track record of one month of profitability with real money taking one trade a day. Then you start proceeding to phase two, phase three, which is increasing your share size, and then eventually scaling in that trades, and increasing the quantity of trades. And that's the progression to being more aggressive. So let me just make our little note on this. So I will trade the first and second pull back on the one minute, and then I'll also trade the first and second pull back on the five minute. While that's true, I'm going to change this to 10 second chart, 10 second chart, and then I'm going to change this to one minute chart, and then I'll say, I may trade pullbacks on the five minute chart if it's still holding up. I may, but it'll depend on, it'll depend on the pattern. It's not quite as common. So the entry here of the first pullback, the confirmation of this pattern is the moment that first candle makes a new high after the pullback. So if we go back here, where's the confirmation? And I'm going to change this just for one second. I'm just going to delete this and I'm going to move this one over here. I'm just going to make a slightly simpler version that doesn't have a small green candle. We'll just do like this. So let me show you this one. All right. We pop up, ding ding ding ding, right? So you've got your on your scanners, you've got your audio alerts with a bell notification turned on. So it'll ring through your speakers, your headphones, dips down, and we're looking for first candle to make a new high. So in the previous example, I had a green candle. It's a little bit easier to spot when it's the last one's red, and then this one's green. The problem here is that this is not exactly totally accurate because what you know is that candles close at the bottom and then the next candle opens at base to the same price. So getting in here is a little tricky because the candle's already popped up quite a bit. So a sort of more preferable pattern would be when the bottom candle is a little bit smaller, kind of like this. This is sort of when it's perfect. So let me just undo these changes for a second. I'm just going to do a second version of what you do to do. So what I want to show you here is the apex point. If it's still holding up. All right. So I'm going to duplicate this slide, and I'm going to just create a second one right down here. So it's going to be the first pull back set up. All right. So now I'm going to just create this version of this, which is slightly as skewed, but that's okay. All right. So we'll just go like this. So this small candle's slightly red right there. And then this one opens about like that, and let's just play this animation. So pops up, pulls back, and we're looking for first candle to make a new high. Right. So the apex point is the moment that candle makes the new high for our entry. So now if we go back here to this slide, the confirmation of pattern is the moment the first candle makes a new high after a pull back. Sometimes a pull back is only one red candle. Other times it can be three or four. If the pull back takes more than four candles to form, it usually to me feels too weak, and I usually will not take the trade. Because confirmation is the moment the first candle makes a new high. Sometimes I'll enter early to anticipate the breakout. I'm more likely to do that in a strong market. If I'm entering early with typically triggers that entry, is either a break through a psychological level just below the apex point, such as a half-dr or a whole-dr, or seeing a surge of buying on the level two. I would always prefer to have an early entry because it offsets the risk of a full trap or a false breakout. Almost immediately upon entry, I want to see the price moving up. This is the type of trade that when it works, it will work almost instantly and that early entry allows me to benefit as volume increases as a price breaks through the new high of day. Remember that early short sellers cover when stocks break to a new high of day. That will fuel additional momentum through that price high of day on a strong setup. So then this is our setup, a scanner alert, ding ding ding ding, pulling back, looking for first candle making a new high. So by the time this is happening, we've got the chart and what are our eyes really looking at level two. Because we're anchoring in our minds, what was the high of this candle? Let's say it was $3.80, we've got that number 380 in our mind. So if on the level two we see 375 and then we start seeing green on the tape, 76778, I might jump in at 78 to anticipate that we're about to break a new high, especially if this candle has just closed and the next one is already open. Steps down for a second, then pops up and I'm taking my entry right there, looking risk we used through the high. So the target is always a retest to high a day and then an extension through that level up towards the nearest half dollar or holdout. Now I only want to take these trades if there's a realistic potential that the stock can give me 25 to 50 cents a share profit at a minimum. If I can't get at least 25 cents a share, it's really not worth it for me. So during the first pullback, I don't want to see a stock retrace more than 50% right? If the pullback was a bigger one, there's increased risk that you're going to get a double top. So if you have, for instance, a pattern where you get your first candle that pops up, we'll just do one candle for now, whatever, there's another one down there. And then it comes down and it retraces like this much. And then you get a pop back up first kill when making you high. Well, not as many traders are bullish on this pattern, but let's just say it does kind of slowly grind back up. What's going to happen is back at the high of day at this point, you're likely going to have short sellers who are shorting against this high, saying this is going to be a double top, right? Because now, anyone who was down here is probably going to take profit. And for shorts, they can short against this level and look for a reversal back down because you've got this big range. So best case scenario would be the formation of what? A cup and handle right here, so you've got the cup and then the handle. That would be formed by a small pullback, where it doesn't crash all the way down, it holds and then we take that trade, that's not a first pullback setup, that's more advanced. So that's the honey crisp. We're not going to trade that as a beginner. We're going to leave that for the future when you get a little bit more dialed in. There's just too much, too many variables for that not working out to make it worthwhile as for most beginner traders. So we want to make sure that that pullback is not more than a 50% retracement in order for us to realistically expect that when we get resolution, it'll break through the high a day and keep going higher. That's what we want to see happen. So the risk factors stop their tight on this and these flag patterns, the sideways consolidation a little pullback, they're typically quite strong because of the psychology that's going on behind the scenes. Breakouts and double top rejections are risk factors though. So confirming the position of the Mac D is helpful. If this is the first move up on breaking news and the stock just pulled away, the Mac D is positive always. The only time to Mac D- may be negative as if the stock has already been actively trading for 20-30 minutes, maybe already popped up, pull back and is now rallying back up. But if you're trading the first 5-10 minutes right after breaking news, the MacDs pretty much always positive, as long as it's still holding above the 50% line. But confirming the position of the MacD, confirming that there are not any big sellers on the level 2, confirming the position of the 9 EMA versus the current price and the pull back and that retracement, can all help avoid false breakouts. Typically what we have happened is that we get this big pop, we get the pull back and the pull back is a moment for the moving average to catch up, right? And so sometimes stocks will pull back right to the 9 EMA, 9 EMA, and this is valid both on the 5-minute certainly, the 1 minute, it's valid on the 10-second, but I don't, because these 10-second kills are opening and closing so quickly, I don't always have time to really check the position of the moving average, I'm usually at that point more focused on the level 2, and as long as it's holding up relatively well, then I'm interested. So your stop loss is the low of the pull back, that's no question about it. If it breaks to a new low, the trade is broken. But I will sometimes use an arbitrary stop at 5 or even 10 cents a share in order to get a better profit loss ratio. The tighter my stop, the less I need to make in order to get a 2-1 ratio, which means I'm setting the bar lower for success, I'm putting the odds in my favor. But on some stocks that have a 5 or 10 cents spread, you can't realistically keep a stop that tight, so it might still need to be 15 or 20 cents or more. So unfortunately if a stop gets more than 20 cents a share, it's hard for me to justify taking the trade, because I need 50 cents a share to make money, and it's a lot easier to predict when a stock will go up 25 cents than 50 cents a share. So I'm setting the bar lower in terms of having a tight stop, so you only need to make 20 cents for a 2-1 profit loss ratio is better. I need the realistic opportunity to potentially double my risk. If I can't, I should really shouldn't take the trade. So here's another, here's that same example actually. This is that same chart. First rally up, pulls back, pops higher, a lot of volume comes in right there, pushes all the way up here. It actually gets a halt, a circuit breaker halt. It resumes and goes into a second halt. It resumes, dips down for a second, goes into a third halt. It resumes and goes into a fourth halt, then it goes all the way up to here, then it halts coming down, then it pops back up. So this resolution here goes from 360-ish, 370, all the way up to over $10 a share. So I want to cap my losers by having a hard stop, even if it's not a live stop order, but like a very specific, this is my exit point, but I don't want to cap my winners. That's important. We want to let our winners run, but so when you be your traders, we'll say, Ross, I have this terrible habit. I sell my winners too soon, and I hold my losers too long. We want to do the opposite. We want to hold our losers, we want to sell our winners, sorry. We want to sell our losers immediately, we want to hold our winners. We don't want to hold them too long necessarily, but we want to hold our winners. So there's the first pullback right there, and the song 5-minute chart, there's the second pullback. This one worked on the 5-minute timeframe. That's fine. So first pullback, second pullback, could you trade it up here on the third? You could, but usually the first and second are better. Another 5-minute setup, first pullback right there, lighter volume, on these two candles. That's good. We base out off the 9-EMA, and then we rally back up. This is the example of first pullback here, second pullback here, third one up here. Nice volume profile, MACD is positive. This is what we like to see. Here's an example of a rally, high volume moving up, little pullback, first candle making new highs the entry, we end up going from about 7 all the way up to $8 a share. We dip down, and then we get an inverted head and shoulders, a little more complicated, but a push through the new high, did really well on this one. Here, pops up, little first pullback there, not super clean, because this candle is bright red, then it goes all the way back up, probably would not have traded there, but this would have been okay. So in this case, the first pullback didn't really work, but the second pullback did work, and that still was enough to produce a nice profit. Here, first pullback right there, second pullback right there, in this case, the third pullback right there, gives you a false breakout, and then it breaks through 450 and goes all the way up to eight. So maybe short sellers felt confident, this wasn't going to work, and then they got in for a surprise as it actually broke that level and held. I traded this well, that's a little more advanced up here, but these setups are pretty straightforward. From $2 to almost $10 a share, that's a nice move. These are on, by the way, the 10 second time frame, that's the one minute chart, that was the 10 second chart, this was the one minute chart, this was the five minute. So one minute, 10 second, one minute, 10 second, in no particular order, another one on the 10 second chart, micro pullback right there, call it a micro pullback just because it's so, it's so, so quick, and then that goes from 13 all the way up to $35 a share. Wow, that is a big day, that's impressive, another 10 second pullback right there, and the second one right there, second one doesn't resolve as well, and so I probably wouldn't have taken this trade right there. This one, really nice pullback right there, 10 second pullback, breaking news, it squeezes up, we let it dip down, so ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, hitting the scanners, hitting the scanners, pulls back, I take that dip trade right there. I might take that with 30,000 shares, ends up going from six up to seven up to eight that's $60,000 a profit, pushes up a little higher up to nine, boom, 30,000 shares, $73,000, that's not unreasonable for me, that's a nice trade right here, ARTL, first pullback, second pullback, third pullback, starts getting a little choppy or right here, not quite as clean right, it work, not quite as clean, this one, mmm, not as clean, it works it works, it works, got some profit on it, a little choppy. This one, so here we go, PTIX starts hitting the scanner right here, 745, so 382,000 share float, relative volume ends up being five there, then goes up to 34, so it's picking up, it pops up here from three up to about 440, so squeezes up there, dips down, then right there, breaks for 40, first pullback, then it pushes all the way here up to a high up 7, not a super easy trade, being just, you know, the volume profile, a little tricky, total volume of the life, but not bad, so I get into position, having looked for that first candle to make a new high, now I'm in, once I'm in, the trade, what do I want to see? I want to see signs of strength, so I'm closely watching the level two at the time and sales for signs of strength, in the strategies in scaling course, we have all the live trading archives, you're going to see with my eye tracker what I'm actually looking at, and you're going to see I'm no longer looking at the chart, I glance at the chart, but I'm looking, staring at the level two, that's my eye is fixed on it, so I'm staring at the level two, because in those moments that's the source of data that the chart is going to end up being created as a result of, so if I really want to be focused on, you know, the beginning of the move, then I have to be focused on, on the level two. If I want to really see it as it's happening, so just as an example here, so my eye is going to be on the level two here, so right now my eye is off the screen, but it's going to come back on the screen, so of course because I've got a number of monitors, my eye jumps around a little bit, so we'll just pass forward this for a second, so this one pushes a little bit higher, so there we go, so now looking at it, looking at the level two, looking at the level two, glance at the chart, one minute, the 10 second, now this one's not the same pattern that I'm teaching you, but just to show you the live archive, so looking at the chart, looking at the chart, so I get anger on the chart in terms of what prices I need to see, so I'm thinking about the prices that I need to see in order to feel conviction in order to feel confidence that we're going to pass forward this a little bit more, so you can get to the point where I take the train on it, okay, okay, so back that up for a second, so it comes all the way up here, and this ends up being a trade that you'll learn in strategies and scaling, which is a high day break, so I'm literally buying this at the high day and I'm expecting short sellers will cover, so a short squeeze, so I add up here and looking for that quick squeeze up to $5 a share, and so this is what my eye is staring at, as soon as I'm in the trade, what do I want to see, strength, so I want to see the prices moving higher, there we go, so we got up to $5, I take a little profit off the table, so I check my P&L, I'm not even looking at the chart right now, I don't need to, I know the chart has a big green candle, I'm just looking at the level two, and then I'm down to $5,000 shares, so that entire trade there, I didn't look at the chart once, all of that was just managing the trade, once I had my entry, once I knew where I was interested, then I was focused on the level two, so if we back this up, what signs of strength do we want to see, green on the tape, more buy orders coming through versus sell orders, this reflects strong buying volume, the number shares on the level two decreasing, as orders are coming in, that means there's not a hidden seller, buyers are buying up the sellers on the ask, the price should be moving higher and hopefully fairly quickly, the stock should be hitting new highs, therefore it's continuing to hit the high dim rent in the scanner, therefore shorts are likely to be covering, more people are seeing the stock as it's hitting the scanner, helps the stock meet. hand position is the most obvious stock to be traded. Number five, the level two should be jumping up where the next levels of sellers are three, five cents, maybe eight, 15 cents a part. So rather than being really stacked on the sell side, where there's, you know, 10 sellers, there's one seller, and then the next seller is five cents away. So it's a thinner order book. Those will move a lot faster. That's the opposite of tickly traded. So these are the signs of strength. This is what we want to see right after we get into a trade. And we want to already be seeing it starting to happen before we get in. Signs of weakness, which would in other words, be an exit indicator. If I've taken a position and I don't see any signs of strength, that of course it's a problem. Break out or bail out would tell me just to get out, even if it's break even. But even worse is if I see one of the following clear exit indicators. A big seller appear on the level two right where I got in, or just a few pennies higher. Now, if I get in down here and there's no big seller and it goes all the way up to here. And then there's a big seller right up here. Well, I could take profit and I've got a cushion. I don't even have to sell the whole thing necessarily. I could sell half, let it dip down for a second, and maybe I end up holding through the next pullback and then adding back. So that could work. But if I get in right here and then suddenly, there's a big seller right here, and I'm only up two cents, that's a problem. I don't have a cushion to hold this thing. I got to just get right out. So when I see a big seller on the ask, usually, I just get right out. Unless I have a big cushion already of profit on the trade. The obvious appearance of a hidden seller. So I got in and the price doesn't move a penny. There's a obvious hidden seller. Especially if it was only showing a thousand shares on the ask and I bought 10,000, I just bought from a hidden seller. So I might not, I might want to just jump back out. A large burst of red on the tape indicating a surge of selling and possible false breakout, that's an indicator to exit the position. Initially, a pop in the dramatic reversal, that would form a topping tail candle on the one minute or the 10 second, and a possible false breakout candle, which I don't like. I don't like entering on a red candle. So when I'm in Ninja mode, I'm focusing on one trade if they get in, get green, you know, really be very surgical, very precise. So if the candle turns red, while I'm in the trade, that indicates weakness. Although it would have been the first candle, or although it would have first been visible on the tape that weakness coming in before the candle went red, if you get a red candle, it's time to go. As previously mentioned, seeing some signs of weakness or resistance around psychological level shouldn't be too surprising, it reiterates why it can be a risky place to buy. So if you buy right at the half dollar a whole dollar and it can't break that level, that's not shocking. If you're already in with a good entry and then we have some resistance at the half dollar, the whole dollar, that's not shocking, that's tolerable. I thought we got a cushion on the trade that I can hold through it. But if I just got in the trade, that's when I'm in the mentality of this thing, these are either needs to go up 20 cents to share immediately, so I can take half off a table and therefore reduce my risk, or I'm gonna have to get right out. It's thinking about downside risk. So for the simulator, max share size, I would say 100 shares, 100 share blocks on every trade. By keeping share size consistent, it's easier to track your proper loss ratio and understand your metrics as you begin to generate more trading history. I understand 100 shares on 20 cents stock is not the same as a $2 or $20 share stock, but generally trading between 5 and 10, which is a sweet spot share size of 100 shares makes sense. Profit targets and max loss. By begin with simply a rough idea where you want to see a stock up and where you'll sell, I got to fix that type of, where you're sell for a loss if it doesn't work out. So you don't necessarily have to use a stop order, live stop order, as we continue on through strategies and scaling, we'll add more clarity to realistic profit targets and risk levels, but it's important even in alpha phase. They are thinking about roughly where I could get out for profit and roughly where I would get out for loss. And then having a daily max loss is helpful, certainly when you're trading live. However, when you're practicing, you're going to make mistakes. So it's not an issue in alpha phase to use a max loss. When you're doing one trade a day, your risk parameter of 100 shares times 20 cents of risk is going to cap your losses at $20. And you're not going to have to worry about max loss because you have the one trade. So if you're red, then you're done for the day and you try again tomorrow. But as you start increasing trading multiple times throughout the day, which will be later, who strategies in scaling, they'll teach you how to do that, then you'll have to start implementing a daily max loss to put on risk grammars. So I follow the philosophy of breakout bail out of my trading. That means when I get into a position, I pretty much want to see it working immediately. Or I'm going to exit. Even if it's selling at the same price I bought in that for maybe or maybe just for a small loss, the best trades work immediately. That's true. They just work right away. Now, the purpose of trading a simulator is to practice the new strategies that you're learning in a safe environment in order to begin generating historical trading data so you can analyze your metrics. It's important, therefore, that you are tracking your trades. If you're using our simulator, all your trades are being aggregated for you so you can view those metrics. Now, we don't go in and look at the metrics. We can't see them. They're just for you as an individual trader. But you want to be able to look at your metrics so you can see how you're performing. Now, you can also export your metrics if you want and download them, use them in Excel or import them to a different platform as you like. If you use trader view or something else, that's fine too. But you've got to track your metrics because this is how you track your progress. So if you're training for a marathon, you know, you would want to start testing your endurance. How long can I run? How long can I jog? How long can I sprint? And you want to track those metrics so you can see as you're getting better, as you're improving. It's nice to have that benchmark and realize, wow, a few months have gone by and I'm getting a lot better. All this hard work is paying on. So your metrics, even as a very beginner, become a baseline, a starting point. And it's always good to be able to look back at what your starting point was. So although we aggregate the trade in the simulator, you can use Excel if you prefer, that's fine, or you can use a third party platform like Trader View to track your trades. Doesn't matter what you use, but you've got to know your metrics. You've got to do it at least a monthly deep dive to know what you're doing right and what you're doing wrong. I can't tell you how many beginner traders have never looked at their metrics. They don't know their metrics. They don't know their accuracy. They don't know their proper osteos ratio. And it's shocking to me that they don't know this critical data that tells you where you're struggling. If you looked at this data and it showed that you always lose money on stocks over $20, you would stop trading stocks over $20. Now remember, it took me years to make this discovery in my own trade. It didn't come naturally to me to be analyzing the metrics in the ways that I finally did that helped me have my sort of epiphany and turning point of developing and discovering the five pillars of stocks selection. So I understand why it's not logical and necessarily to do this analysis, but now that you've been taught that this exists, it's critical that you do it in your trade. It's also important to keep in mind as we've talked about with trading psychology, foam, and emotional red flags. As a beginner, the first time you ever take a trade, you'll have a rush of adrenaline, but it can alter your decision-making process. If you have a big loss, you can feel angry, frustrated. You miss an opportunity, foam, out. If you feel angry, you're losing money. Angry at someone else is made more than you. These emotions, when they're strong enough, overtake your logical mind. And your logical mind takes a back seat and it's the primitive, emotional, impulsive mind that's in the driver's seat. And that's a problem. You're now in the driver's seat with emotion, and that's when you're shooting from the hip. And that's when you spiral. And usually when traders spiral, they look back at it, you know, later that day or the next day, and they're like, I don't even know what I was thinking. How did this even happen? And the truth is, it's a very accurate statement. In those moments, they weren't thinking with their calm, cool, logical, remind. They were completely caught in emotion. We've seen the videos of people that have fits of rage, whether they're sporting events, or whatever it is, we can become overcome with emotion. And trading, you might not think of it initially, but it is something that can create and bring out big emotions in us. So it's important that you intervene when you start having one of these emotions, and remember the goal is to trade with your logical mind, not your impulsive emotional mind. So by recognizing these triggers earlier, you can have an intervention. You can intervene before you spiral. How do you learn to recognize your triggers? It's by journaling while you're trained. So if you're taking notes while you're trading, that was a good trade, that was solid. I'm feeling frustrated. I've lost four times in a row in the stock and it keeps going higher. That right there, I'm feeling frustrated. That feeling of frustration is a very subtle, sort of precursor for spiraling. Can you rain it back in? Take a deep breath and say, it's not a big deal, it's okay. This is what I'm gonna learn from this trade, or are you gonna become fully hijacked and start revenge trading? We're now you're just trying to get back what you lost. Even in the simulator, people could do this. And with real money, it certainly even works. So it's important to identify these triggers in your own trading. And the only way you discover where they are is by having the experience of becoming triggered. And then being able to look back at your journal on that day and recognize this was the spot where I wish I had walked away. So we're into wisdom. Profitable traders are great losers. That's reality. It's not always about winning more, but in fact, losing less. That can be the difference between success and failure. Live to trade another day. You got the ball back. It wasn't a great day. You lost a little bit, but it's still at your account. You can come back tomorrow. Never take a risk that you can't bounce back from. This is really important. So I never want to empower one trade to blow up my account or ruin my career, and so I don't. I don't leave enough money in my account at this point that could happen, and I restrict myself on the amount of shares that I would buy, and the type of stocks I would trade, so I'm not face that with that kind of risk. Number three, trade the best. Leave the rest. Best quality, quality over quantity, every time. If you're in a colder market and there's not a lot of high quality stocks, it's a time to keep getting experience in the simulator. And there's nothing wrong with that. You can flip back to the sim and trade in the sim. You can trade with, you know, really small size of real money. You can always scale down. Keep getting experience, but don't take real risk. Number four, imagine you can cap all your losses. It's just $500. You can. You can choose how much you're willing to risk, but you have to think about the trades before you take them. You have to think about what is my realistic max loss on this position. And then follow it. Discipline. Remember, I'm putting the blueprint in front of you. You've got to have the discipline to follow the rules. If you're feeling stressed, if you're feeling high in sense of emotion, walk away. Take a breath. The market will be here for you. It's not going anywhere. She's you've got to adopt the mental practice of a winning trader. And something I shared with you earlier is that it can be very frustrating when you recognize or see in the market that sometimes it seems like it's the people who need money the least who make the most. It's not a coincidence. It's because the relationship they have with money. They're focused on the process, not the profits. Because they don't need the profit. Focus on being calm, cool, and collected. Focus on taking the right trades, trading the right stocks, getting the right entries. Block out social media. Don't compare yourself to others. When you're done trading for the day, walk away and don't look back. A value at your performance compared to your own performance creates steps to keep improving. Based on what your metrics are showing you you're doing well on and based on what your metrics show you maybe you should stop doing. And always keep three sticky notes on your desk, red or engine green. Put them up based on the strength of the market. Right now, if we're in a red market because it's cold, choppy, have that red flag up. It's a reminder to be cautious. If it's orange, okay, little hit or miss. If it's green, we're going to hot market. This is a time to take more risks. So is this the time when the odds are in our favor and we should be trading more and taking more risk? Or is this a time to take risk off? You are a manager of risk to pull a risk when the odds are in your favor and keep the risk back when they're not. You'll get better at identifying when the odds are stronger and weaker as you gain more experience traded. Survive, tell you thrive. The longer you can keep your head above water, the better off you'll be. Everyone learns a different speed. In this market, as a beginner, just about keeping your head above water. Just survive to you thrive. And there is no substitution for practice. Again, you can read all the books you want about skydiving. But at certain point, you guys start jumping out of the plane and you don't do it by yourself. You do it strapped to some big burly man whose well could be a woman. But I say, I'm going to say this is a big burly man because that seems funnier. So I'm going to be strapped to some big burly man because that's how you do it when you first jump out of a plane. That might not be what I want but it's the right way to learn. So think of me as a big burly man in the market and you're jumping in but you've got me at your back. I'm here kind of looking out for you. Make sure you remember to pull that rip cord at the right moment. You're going to hear my market commentary. You're going to hear me saying it's a cold day. I should be careful. It's a hot day. All right. I'm feeling more confident. All of this is of course just my opinion and me sharing with you what I'm actually doing but I think it's certainly better than doing it on your own. You don't want to jump out of an airplane for the first time by yourself. You're not supposed to do that. It's very, very risky. You want to make sure you do it the right way. There's no substitute for practice. You've got to get a certain number of hours under your belt before, you know, you can really, before you can really, I think, well, I want to say like really take off in your trade. So as long as you're practicing your trades, you know, where it's an alpha phase or it's invaded phase or even in phase one with real money, keep practicing, keep tracking your trades, keep gaining experience. All of that experience is where intuition comes from. You need the experience to develop intuition. So I have to say I've got educated intuition, it's influenced by all of the experience I've gained. Am I right 100% in time? No, I'm not. But that intuition has gotten pretty good over the years. So you are who you're spending your time with, spend your time with traders who are both profitable, transparent, willing to teach and who inspire you to be a better trader yourself. Individuals play the game, the team beats the odds. So this is to me really important because I see a lot of negativity in the training world. I've found that for one, contrarian traders are inherently negative. Sometimes people who are contrarian, I feel like it's a wanting to sound smart. It's a wanting to just be ahead of the others. And so I find that that personality can be different, difficult. Someone who's always trying to counter everything. It's constantly playing the devil's advocate on everything and it gets annoying in a certain point. And so for instance, I have a hard time being around contrarian traders. I have a hard time being around a lot of short sellers because I think they're inherently very negative. So you know it is what it is. But I find a lot of people on social media, especially on Twitter, or X, very negative. Very, you know, they're not transparent. They just put out what they want you to see. It feels very manipulative and just I really don't like it. So it's important that you block out negativity and you surround yourself with people who are profitable, that's certainly helpful, who are transparent, who are positive in their outlook. And I'm not talking about toxic positivity, but there's just obviously a benefit of being around people who are more solution oriented. How can we make this better? How can we improve? You know, what can we do to become better traders? You are the people you surround yourself with. So put yourself in a good community of traders. We hear of course I think we've got a great community. Are there better communities out there? You can argue that? I think we've got a great community here. We've got some bad holders who have earned a lot of money trading. I value their input tremendously. When I see someone with a $2 million dollar badge in the chat room and they're saying, hey, this is that I pay attention to that. And you know, so it's important to surround yourself and be in a community of other traders. I really think there's a lot of value in that. And it's also important with any strategy that you're able to adapt to changing markets. While generally we're doing the same thing every day following the rules of the strategy, we also have to be able to adapt. When it comes to hot markets and cold markets, position sizes, patterns that are working a little bit better, the type of profile of the stock that is working better, or the profile of what's really not working. So this to me is like, you know, I actually saw, during a ski race, there was this guy, he was the wax man for the ski team. And he was out there with this fancy instrument testing the moisture content of the snow. Oh, that's interesting. I don't remember them doing that when I was on ski team. But, no, maybe that, I don't know. Maybe my school didn't have the money for it. Anyway, it doesn't matter. You know, the skill to be a skier, you can ski in any conditions, right? Once you're, once you're at a level of your competing, you can ski in any conditions. But, you want to really optimize your skiing. You want to compete at the top level. That's where when it's, you know, certain weather, you put on different wax, right? Maybe you use your edges a little bit more. You make these several shifts. And you do the same thing with trade it. When the market's hotter, you ease up on your size a little bit. Take a little more risk when the market's cool, you ease off a little bit. And we're talking about, you know, making crazy radical changes. You know, we're not talking about flipping from a set of skis to a snowboard between races. You know, you guys stay in the same lane. We're not going from small cap to large cap to futures to 4x. You know, telemarked to downhill to cross country, whatever. We're, we're in the same lane. But, we're making these subtle shifts. And what I found in my trading is that the better I've gotten at using off the throttle earlier, the smaller the dip before the next leg up. And earlier in my career, I would experience, I wouldn't maximize on the gain as much. And I would draw down a little too much when it was cold. And so I was having bigger waves, bigger difference between the tops and the bottoms. And I wasn't maximizing as much on the ups. So I wasn't getting as much out of the hot market. And I was losing a little too much in the cool market. And so, you know, if you're moving from here as a starter, well, let's say as a starter, you know, you're kind of like this break even. And that would be even desirable to be break even. Then you're kind of trying to move from, you know, to here. And then a little bit better, right? And then a little bit better. And a little bit better. And maybe a little bit better. So where are you sort of on this spectrum between hot markets and cold markets? And while many if you maybe down here is a beginner trader, I get that. We're just trying to make a little improvements. Little improvements move just a few rung, a few rungs up, if you're not as higher. So during hot streaks I start doubling down and increasing my risk during cold streaks take my foot off the gas all the way to the point where I'll have no trade days. I'll say I'm not even going to trade, I'm not even willing to take a trade in this market, I'm not willing to deploy risk and that's fine as well. I know we focus on one trade a day is this small account way but in a colder market it's okay to have no trade days. It's important to treat trading as a business. Most businesses fail in the first year, survive to you thrive, survive that first year. The longer you keep your head above water the more you'll be able to develop your own educated tuition. You will know more about trading a year from now than you know today. So save that big risk and big share size for that. And this first six months, this first nine months, the first year, keep it all reended. Don't deploy all your capital all at once, be thoughtful about this, treat it like a business. Now during strategies in scaling, we're going to talk about what that means even from the point of taxes, think about trader tax status, mark to mark an accounting because there's a number of different things you can think about there. A lot of traders get to a certain level where they do start trading and it actually is a business, it's a corporation for an LLC and that opens up a whole bunch of benefits which all other small business owners can enjoy as well. So there's considerations there, you're not there right now, right now is just laying the groundwork which is to put that out there, but if you treat trading as a business and you're already doing that because you're saying, here's someone, you know, me, Ross, who's running a successful trading business, just trading as a business, it makes my trading, he's got the metrics of profitability, you know profit, loss, overhead, etc, profitable trading. What is he doing, how are you doing it and I've just shared with you a business plan? That trading plan and that strategy is a business plan. Yes, it's for the first set up, but it's a business plan, that's a starting point. So now, just as if I was going to open a coffee shop, I'm going to take a business plan from someone else who's been doing it successfully, I'm going to try to replicate as much of it as I can. Now, you can't do a simulator coffee shop, you've got to just take the risk at a certain point. So that takes more risk in a lot of ways. That type of small business, the bird, the barrier of entries a lot higher, but we're trading the barrier to entries lower, that's a blessing in the curse. It allows people to jump in, thinking over confidently, they'll figure it out and make money, but I think already a couple steps ahead of them, because you're, instead, realizing this is a little bit trickier and I need to spend some time learning from someone who knows what they're doing. But treating it as a business, that also means having an attachment, you know, a loss, businesses have, have losses, you know, it's a cost of doing business. There's a cost of learning, there's a learning curve involved with this. We need a business plan, we need a trading plan. We need rules in place to manage risk. If someone is going to invest in this business of trading, would they be well advised to do that or would they hesitate? Your metrics would tell them, you know, which way, yes or no. So the trading plan, this is what I outlined in strategies in scaling. We go alpha phase, we go beta phase, which is the dry run. And then phase one with real money is just repeating the beta phase of one trade a day for 10 days. And then once you've done that, you start scaling up, you increase your share size. So still one trade a day increasing share size. Then you start scaling out of winners, then you start scaling into winners and out of winners. And then you start increasing the number of trades you take each day. And this is the phase one through five of trading with real money. Reminder, don't leave the simulator until you can prove profitability in the beta phase. It's just not worth it. I've seen too many traders who've blocked our count and it's just not worth making that mistake. So the beta phase in the simulator, again, just to reiterate, it's the dry run for going live. It means you've taken at minimum of 10 days of trading one trade a day and you have made money. So we'll talk in a lot more detail about the beta phase when we get into strategies in scaling. My guess is that you probably won't proceed to real money until you've gotten through strategies in scaling. You'll probably want to add additional setups, but you do have one actionable setup. You can trade right now, which is the first pullback. Even if you only trade that setup, you might not see those patterns every single day, but you'd see them several times a week. That could be enough to survive to you thrive while you continue to learn more. So some of you may progress to trading in real money after mastering that strategy in the simulator. Others might wait to develop additional strategies or subset patterns before proceeding to real money. But in any case, we're going to dig a lot deeper into all of this during strategies in scaling. So that transition from phase one of the beta, the beta phase drive run to real money. It's all about transitioning slowly. The biggest mistake I've seen traders make is they trade in the simulator with 10,000 chair positions, they go with big size, and then they do that with real money and they immediately go deep red. So we want to make the transition. We want to almost make it where you don't even know you transitioned. It's that subtle. It's that seamless. If you could do it on the exact same software like that would be ideal. You're just like one day, you're sim the next day, you're real money. Same size, everything's, but nothing is changing. And then those first 10 days, that's where it's excited. Can you just maintain it, then another 10 days, another 10 days, another 10 days, and then all of a sudden, what you have, you've got track record. And why is that track record so important? Because inevitably, you will have a loss. When you have the loss on day one, first day of real money, and you've never sim traded, you have no track record. You have no North Star. You have no source of truth that you actually know what you're doing. So when you finally have your first red day, you look back and you say, hey, I'm still the trader who did all of this, and I can do this again. Red day's happened. They happened to the best of us. So I'm going to reset. I'm going to check myself into trader rehab, I'm going to rain in the size, because I don't want to have a second red day that's big. So I'm going to reduce the size, a second small red day that's tolerable, a third small red day that's tolerable, a small green day that's going to small red day that's good, fine, tolerable, small red day, green day, green day, and then once you've made back about 50% of the loss, you start taking the guard rails off, you start opening up again, and boom your back up. And then eventually it happens again, you have another loss, and you say, hey, I'm still the trader who did all of this. So before you ever put real money in the market, you need this. It's your source of confidence. There's nothing more important than that. That's what I have, even today, that allows me to bounce back after even six figure red days. You guys have seen some of my red days. Well, those who have tuned into YouTube, I had some huge red days before. I don't like it, but I took a lot of risk. I thought I had potential to make a million dollars in one day, maybe I did, but then work out that way. I got a big red day, but I get back on the horse because I've got the track record. So the track record is your source of confidence. So transitioning from beta phase to phase one of real money, we've got to make it seamless. And then scaling up, rather than increasing the number of trades a day, we just start with increasing the share size, going from 100 to 200 to 400 to 400 to 800 to 1600, 3, 200 up to 4,000 up to 4,500 up to 5,000. Once we get it to about 5,000 shares, 20 cents a day is a thousand bucks. That's serious. That's some real money. That's exciting. That's when you're really on your way. So with all of that, you have now learned my trading plan and the day trading strategy, I personally use whenever I'm doing small account challenges. I bring it back down to basics, trading just the stocks, the type of stocks I share with you, trading just that first pullback, it is for me my highest probability set. It's really the one that I like the most. So this is a great starting point for you guys. And you've already learned so much in day trading, the basics, you're ready to keep going. So keep practicing, alpha phase, practice a ton, and when you feel you're ready to test it with real money, first you, 10 days of one trade a day, and let's see what that will answer you. Okay, so with that, let's continue on here to the next section.