# Preparing to Start Trading
 Chapter 14, preparing to start trading. Okay, so we're making our way through day-trained basics. We're coming towards the end of the curriculum for this course, which transitions you into day trading strategies and scaling, which is my of course full-length class where I teach you all of the strategies that I implement in my own trading. The goal for day-trained basics is that you will walk away from this course with one strategy, which is my favorite, that you can begin implementing in your own trading, as always in a simulator before trading with real money. So, Chapter 14, preparing to start trading. Let's talk a little bit about what you have learned thus far before we take a deep dive into this section. So, we began day-training the basics with sort of a summary of what it means to be a day trader. And the type of asset classes that traders like myself are going to gravitate towards. Naturally, I'm looking for volatility. I don't make money buying something at five and selling it at five. I will do really well if I could buy something at five and it goes to 10. How would a stock go up 100% in one day? Well, we talked about that as we got into the next section, which was Chapter 3, on stock selection. The five pillars of stock selection, but of course, that big catalyst, which is what creates the demand, which overpowers the supply, and then results in the big squeeze. We then dived a little bit deeper into fundamental analysis in Chapter 4, Chapter 5. We got into technical analysis. And now it's a pretty deep dive into reading individual candlestick shapes. And then, of course, the candlestick, multi-callestick chart patterns all the way into some technical indicators. Then we proceeded into Chapter 6, 7, 8, and 9, and 10, which is really getting into the weeds of how trading software works. Reading level 1 data, reading level 2 data, the order types, the order entry window, your hot keys, your hot buttons. And we've of course talked about stock halts and stock scanning. So we're now getting to a point where I think we can take everything we've learned thus far and begin to put it together into a simple but cohesive strategy. It's going to have a set of rules that you will follow every single day. Just this morning, I was teaching a class to our warrior pro members and I was talking about a turning point that I had earlier in my career. And I'll share this with you because I think this is a good spot in this curriculum to talk about. This event that occurred for me. So, and I may have shared this with you a little bit earlier in day-training basics, but I'll just touch on it again. So when I first got into trading, I was gravitating towards penny stocks because I had this friend Ben who had made all this money, well you know seemed like a lot of money. It was like $15,000 trading penny stocks when we were in high school. And so seeing him do that made me think when I was in my 20s that if I could do that, he did that then, if I could do that now, that would only be a few trades a year and I could be up $45,000, $50,000 a year. That would be pretty nice. And so I spent my first months looking at how to trade penny stocks. And I find much success with that eventually switched gears and got more focused on small caps and really specifically on day trading them, getting in and getting out quickly. But I ended up having a rock bottom, so to speak, where I, you know, two steps forward, three steps back, two steps forward, three steps back. And I just got to this point where, you know, I had made some money, I had had a little bit of beginner's luck, and then I, you know, slowly kind of giving that all back and you know, was now down here kind of it, what it felt like rock bottom. My account was, you know, I needed, I needed to add more money into my account. I had accumulated debt on credit cards that I was using to pay for my cost of living, so I didn't have to take money out of my trading account to pay bills, which would then, you know, make it a possible trade. And when I had this rock bottom, for me, this became a catalyst for change. In fact, I talk about this, we've dived deeply into this concept of rock bottom. If you've ever watched the show on, I can't remember what that work is on, but it's on, it's it's called intervention, and it's where they do an intervention on, you know, someone who's struggling, usually would like some addiction of some type. And they say in that show, we need to bring rock bottom to you in like the intervention. And they do that essentially by taking away all the things they're enabling this person. And then once they're at rock bottom, once they say, listen, if you're going to keep using this substance, whatever it is, you know, you can't live here anymore, and we're not going to give you any money, we're not going to feed you, you're going to be totally on your own. So now it's like holy smokes, things just got real. And so it's when you hit rock bottom that you're like, okay, well, that's usually when you kind of submit. You're like, all right, wow, I got a wake up call. I got to turn things around. This is this is now getting serious. And the thing with trading is that rock bottom for most traders would be, you know, having your account blow up, losing all the money you've got in your account. And this is the thing that I'll caution. And I've said this before, but when you come into trading and you're a little later in life and you've accumulated some wealth, rock bottom is a long ways away. You've gotta be really careful about that. You don't want to just keep adding a little money to your account, a little more, a little more, a little more. And the next thing you know, you know, you've slowly depleted over the course of a couple of years, you know, $100,000 or more. And I've seen people do that. Now naturally, if you come into the market and you're younger or end or you're at any age, and you don't have as many resources, which is more common with people that are younger, but of course it can happen if you're older too. Then rock bottom is closer. And I actually think that that is a really good thing because you can experience hitting rock bottom, which is essentially, you know, what I had here, which is your account, you know, you take all these losses to the point where you've got to add more money to your account, you've accumulated debt, you don't know where you're going to come up with that money. It's like, okay, if I add more money to my account here, I need to really get in line and follow the rules because if I don't, I can't keep adding money. And so if you come to the table already with resources and you know, you're not in a position where you're likely to actually hit rock bottom, is there a way that we can simulate what it's like to hit rock bottom so you can have the same lesson. So you can learn the same thing without having to lose a million dollars or whatever it is. And I think you can. And I think the way you do this is that when you fund your first account, you fund it with a small amount of money. So you can still have the experience of potentially blowing up that account and realizing, wow, I lost everything that was in that account and now I've got to start over. Right? If you start with a big account, it's just your rock bottom's farther away. So I share that with you because for me, when I had this, this, this rock bottom, for me, and I was fortunate, I had a little bit of beginner's luck in my first year of trading. I had some beginner's luck, I made about 25, 30,000 dollars. And then the second year, I gave that all back. And the problem was in the first year when I was making money, my account balance was not growing. My account was staying flat because every time I would make five grand or whatever it was, I would take that money out to pay bills. And then I'd make another five grand, I'd take it out to pay bills, I'd make another five grand, take it out to pay bills. So this is my account balance down here. And so when I started to lose money, uh-oh, you know, that was okay for a little bit. And then I got to a point where, uh-oh, now I need to add money to my account. And I can't take out any money for my account to pay my bills. I'm going to put it on my, you know, American Express. So I ended up at one point having $30,000 of credit card debt with, you know, $5,000, $6,000 of balances across five or six cards. I had two MX cards, I had two master cards, and I had a visa, a Toyota visa from when I bought a Toyota at one point. So, you know, one, two, three, well, and this was four and then five. So this for me was rock bottom. And what happened on that day, just to kind of dive a little deeper there is at this point in my career, you know, I've been doing this for a while, I still was trading from a person from a place of trial and error, shooting from the hip a little of this, a little of that. I just, I didn't have a clear direction. And so on this day, when I took that, this was a $5,000 red day, the day that finally, the straw that broke the camel's back, so to speak, $5,000 red day, and it was the beginning of the new month, it was August. And I had had a goal of making $5,000 a month, right? This all ties back to that goal of, you know, roughly $50,000 a year, right? Which eventually became a $200 per day goal when I started day trading. But when I first started, I thought, you know, $15,000 penny stock like Ben had done times three, right? Times three times a year, it's 45 grand. So in any case, that $50,000 goal. And so that meant I need to be pretty consistently doing, you know, $1,000 a week, right? $5,000 a month, so $5,000, $5,000, so on and so forth. So it was August, I was already well behind on any of that happening since I was red on the year. And then on the first week, I jumped in a stock and I ended up losing $5,000. Now I will tell you that on that trade, I was mismanaging my risk. In those days, I was sort of, the market in those days was not as strong as it is today. There were fewer opportunities. We didn't have commission free trading. There was lighter volume. There just weren't as many market participants. And so in those days, I didn't take as many trades, but I would swing harder when I would trade. So I would be more aggressive. And while that would work, what it sort of meant was I either had big wins or big losses, which put me on this sort of emotional roller coaster at the worst time. I didn't need that added stress, but that's what it was. And so here, I take a $5,000 loss. And just like that in an instant, I can't take any more trades in my account without until I add more money to it. And I remember on that day, I went out to the barn behind my house up in Vermont and I started splitting firewood. And I was just, you should have seen me. I was swinging that axe. You know, the sun was shining in the afternoon. Wood chip were flying. You know, my hair, the red beard, it was sawdust everywhere. They say that day I chopped 10 cords of wood. I think it was more than that. It was more like 15. But I chopped and chopped and chopped. And at the end of it, with the, you know, sweat glistening on my muscles. And, you know, I of course had to take off my flannel shirt. And well, it was, it was quite a sight to have seen. I'll tell you that. But I made my way back up into my little office, which in my farmhouse in Vermont, I had a little room above the kitchen. And it was a great office in the winter with the wood stove. It was nice and toasty. And in the summer, I could open the windows and there was a nice cross breeze. And so I went back up there in my little office. And I printed out the record of all of the trades I had taken. And so one of the things that I have been doing since the beginning was I was tracking all of my trades in an Excel doc. And I did this because when I had first gotten introduced to the market in the 1990s as part of a Montessori school project, you know, this sort of hands-on learning, we were partnered up and me and the partner that I had, my neighbor Cooper, you know, we had a pretend account trade-in. And so we had to track all of our trades on a sort of simple ledger. And so when I started trading again in 2001 and then when I came back into it after I had, you know, the great recession, I used that same kind of methodology. And I was tracking all my trades as being very diligent about this. And so what I had on that afternoon was a record of thousands of trades I had taken over the last couple years. And I sat down pouring through that data. A lot of it was trial and error. There were penny stocks in there. There were large caps. There were options trades. I mean, there was like swing trading and day trading. And I said to myself, there has to be something in here that's a hint or a clue at what I can do to turn this around. And it wasn't just that I had that $5,000 red day. It's that, you know, I had come off of a, you know, sort of 12-month period. I had a little, I did have a loss on a penny stock and then I'd made that back, you know, and then I'd kind of come back down to here. So it was like, you know, it was about here. So I was now net negative on having started trading, you know, and from this point I had lost so much confidence. I was like, I don't know what I'm doing here, you know, this is crazy. This was a minus $5,000 day. So as I sat there, I thought of myself kind of like the movie Apollo 13 with all of the NASA scientists down at the Houston headquarters, Command Center, who when they figured out that the astronauts were running out of oxygen, they said, all right, you put everything on this table that those guys have up there. And we're going to figure out how to scrub the air. So they can get rid of carbon monoxide and clean the air. And they were taken out like a string of floss and, you know, the stretchy band, the stretchy part of a bandaid or the stretchy part of a suit and, you know, the cotton from Q-tips or whatever they had, they were taking everything, putting on a table. And I felt like I was doing that with my trading. I was taking everything and I was putting it on the table. And I was sorting this data. And I was looking at the biggest winners. I was looking at the biggest losers. I was looking at these stocks based on price, based on time of day, based on float. And I'm so grateful that I had been diligently tracking all of my trades. Now, I already said this at the beginning of this carbon dioxide. I think I already said this at the beginning of this course. But if you've been trading for some time and you have not already imported all of your trading metrics, I highly encourage you to do it. It gives you a baseline. Just see where you're at. Now, I've shared with you a million times the software that I use, no affiliate relationship, use them if you want, don't use them, use something else. Doesn't matter. But it gives you a baseline of where you're at. Now, this software, I don't think it was around when I was first learning how to trade. Or if it was, I didn't know about it. But in any case, I highly recommend it. It's the best way to sort of take the temperature of what's working right now. So essentially, what I did was what I show you guys here, which is I looked through my metrics and I was like, okay, let's clear out. So we're just going to look at all time right now. So I was like, okay, you know, let's look at price. And I look at price and maybe we should zoom this into a period of time that is maybe let's say the last 12 months, maybe we'll find some error. So I look at price, you know, it's like, okay, so this is the price I should focus on. And as I did this, and this is like, it's easy for me to share with you the metrics here. But as I was doing this, you know, this was like, I was a pioneer. No one had done this before. This was like, you know, I was printing out these sheets at paper and I was, you know, copy pasting with like scissors and, you know, I was looking at this stuff, like no one had ever looked at it before, you know, really piecing the data together. And I realized, thankfully, because I've been so diligent about tracking my trades, that there were some important parameters that I picked up on or some important, I don't know, clues. And so what I noticed for instance, number one, I just did a price filter. And I noticed that I statistically lost money over $20. And in fact, those were where I had some of my biggest losses was on higher price stocks. And I also noticed that I consistently lost money under $1. And so that became the origin for that first pillar of price, right? Price between two and 20, ideally. And I also noticed time. So I noticed that I did the best between 9.30 AM and about 11 AM. Now in those days, people didn't really trade much pre-market. Today, this starts much earlier than it did then. So the window where I do well is shifted to be earlier. But at that time, it was 9.30 to 11 AM. And in fact, between 12 PM and, you know, 4 or 5 PM even after hours, I was losing money, lost money. And what I recognized, this was not just a problem with, it was, it's not like there aren't opportunities, opportunities in the afternoon. There are opportunities in the afternoon. However, the days I'm more likely to trade in the afternoon are the days that I struggled in the morning. And therefore, I'm feeling a bit desperate looking for a Hail Mary pass, willing to jump on anything that's popping up. And so guess what happens? You'll over your quality standard. And so suddenly after now, my accuracy was a lot lower. And I would incur these big losses taking high risk. And so the next thing was saying, all right, well, what if, what if, I take all of these trades, you know, thousands of trades. And I say, we exclude everything that was outside the price parameter and everything outside the time parameter. And all of a sudden, what was, over the last, you know, X number of months, a red number became a green number. Now, as I mentioned, when we were talking about scanning, oh, actually I talked about this in quite a bit more detail during strategies and scaling chapter on scanning. But you have to be careful that you're not just basically sorting the data to only take out the losers, sort of arbitrarily in an arbitrary way to leave yourself just with winners that would create a very complex set of rules that would make it so that set of 1000 trades, for instance, would have been profitable. But that those don't work forward looking. So you sort of reverse the equation based on a set of data that's fixed. But these aren't rules that actually would apply moving forward. So this was still a question of whether this would work moving forward. But I was committed that this made a lot of sense with price. That this was the area where I was clearly doing the best and time was also where I was clearly doing the best. And then I started narrowing it down in terms of well, what are the types of stocks I make the most money on? And it was stocks going up at least 10%. And so then that kind of tied in with, well, what are the type of stocks and go up 10% because this essentially by default eliminated large caps. So now I'm not trading large caps anymore. It pretty much eliminated midcaps and all of a sudden I'm focusing on small caps. So now this kind of got into flow. So the type of stocks that could go up 10% generally have a flow of under 20 million. And so I'll give you this will give you a little preview of a hint of something that I care about quite a bit, which is grateful dead, a band that many of you are probably familiar with. And there's an interview with Robert Hunter who is one of the writers, Alirisis, who wrote the lyrics to some of their great songs. And he talks about that there was this day in London where he they had the afternoon free and he had a case of alcohol. And it was a whole case just for him. And he was sitting there drinking and writing. And he said, on that day I was writing songs that I knew would last for generations. He said, there's a beautiful day. On that day he wrote Ripple. He wrote, Broke Down Palace. And there was another song to lay me down I think. And he said at the end of that interview, oh I wish those days would come again. And then he said they will. But not for me. And there's something so beautiful about that. And on that day just through sheer timing and grace and just everything came together on that day for him to be able to have this incredible breakthrough. I've heard Bob Dylan talk about his writing in sort of a similar way that he doesn't know where those songs came from. Some of those songs he's so well known for. And almost a gift but also a curse that he was able to produce something so incredible but doesn't know how to do it again. And I wish I could have a day like this for large cap stocks or for swing trading. But this was my big breakthrough. And even on that day I knew that this was something that was big. And it was because I had hit rock bottom that I was in this very innovative curious place. A little bit of desperation, you know the pressure. But it just everything fell into place here and this is where this was all born from. So then I proceeded to make the decision to sell some things I had in my barn up in Vermont. And I raised enough money to fund my account. So added $5,000 back to my account and I was back at it. And so then that that fall as I got back into it I was so disciplined. I knew that I had just hit rock bottom. I knew that I didn't have anything else I could sell value in my barn. And the alternative in the 2000s of getting 2010s of getting a kind of regular job in Vermont at $15 or $18 an hour was not appealing. I knew that on good days I could make a $1,000 with one trade. I'd done it so many times before. I just had to stop losing. I didn't need to win more. I needed to stop losing. I needed to stop having these days where I would just make a terrible mistake. And so I went on so this is going to zoom out a little bit. So I had this sort of beginner losses and then made them back. And then when all the way back down to rock bottom this was the rock bottom here. It might have actually been lower than that but it doesn't matter. And then began this sort of slow rally back up. And so my routine during these days was that I sat down every day, every morning, 9am and I made a watchlist. And I made a watchlist using the five pillars of stock selection that you've already learned. And I was also I was relying on my top gainer scanner and my high day momentum scanner. And sometimes I wouldn't have a watchlist. Sometimes there wouldn't be anything that was gapping up. I would just wait for something to start spiking up and then I'd try to figure out what's the catalyst. Sometimes in those days it was a stock that was talked about on MSNBC or CNBC. And suddenly that stock would start popping up. Sometimes gym cramers, charitable trust or whatever would take a position on something. And they would send out a text and email alert to a 100,000 people on the list and the stock would pop up. And so I would buy the first pullback. And I was trading this strategy more or less of sort of slightly more primitive version of it than what you've already begun to learn. But more or less the same general concept. And so I also knew I had to be really disciplined about how much time I was willing to spend in the market each day. And on days that I was red I had to walk away. And so I was living in this farmhouse up in Vermont. And the house was a little bit big for me. And it was, you know, I was burning firewood to keep it warm in the winter. But part of the house I would have to shut down. I would sort of have these issues with some of the pipes freezing. And it had some water leaks from that. And the back porch was kind of starting to sag down. It was built on an old stone kind of foundation. And you know, there were slates on the roof that were starting to fall. And the barn was also kind of leaning a little bit on the back end on its foundation. And I kind of thought maybe I should sell the house. And it would just be like moving to something simpler. I was really looking for something that was self-sufficient. I was looking for my five acres and independence. Now I kind of had it with the farmhouse. But the house was a little bit just a little bit too big. And so I was looking to downsize. And I thought, you know, maybe I might want to try sell the house in the spring or something. So I thought, well, if I'm going to do that, I'm going to repaint it and get it tidied up. So what I did was I would trade from 9.30 to 11 a.m. and 11 a.m. my time or would go off. And I said, that's it. I'm done. I'm walking away. And it was so hard for me to discipline myself during this time. But I would I said, that's it. I'm done. I would walk away. And I would go outside and I'd gone down to the hardware store and got, you know, five gallons or whatever it was of white paint. And so I was repainting the farmhouse. And I was going side by side, you know, painting it. And those days were so great because the weather was nice and I was outside and I felt like I was accomplishing something towards this goal, you know, of simplifying my life. And I was also making some progress trading and painting is so meditative, at least for me that you could sort of think about these other things. You really be deep in thought. And so I was just going along. And so that got me through the fall. And of course, you know, stacking the firewood and everything else. So those kind of things around the property kept me really busy that fall. And and sure enough, you know, I kind of got back on track, you know, with a thousand dollars a week, more or less, you know, three, four thousand dollars a month. And and I got to a point where I finished that year and feeling really, really good. I go into the next year. So this is the new year. And I keep that progress going during the winter. You know what I actually did. I had a couple setbacks where I had some days where I traded a little too long. I had a few red days. And so what I actually started doing was I would actually unplug. I was still using a laptop for my trading. I would actually unplug the computer at 11 a.m. and I go put it in the trunk of my car. I was like, you're done. You cannot look at the market until the next day because I struggled so much with going back and checking. I would just keep checking and checking. And if I saw something starting to move then I would get a follow-up. And so I just said, you cannot. You can't. And so then we fast forward to about March. And I had a day where I was down five thousand dollars in the morning. I had one of those trades, you know, kind of like back on this day, you know, where I had taken too much size and I took this big loss and I got stubborn and I held and hoped and so I took the five thousand dollar loss and then I'm down five grand. It's 11 a.m. and I don't walk away. I'm so upset. It's 12. It's one. It's two. And all of a sudden we hear breaking news come out on the stock and it was like $70 a share. And I see it pop up and I immediately buy it by 500 shares in an instant. It's like $75 a share and it immediately drops to like $65 a share. And I'm like, oh my gosh, I had another 500 shares. I'm already down five grand and it drops immediately now to $55 a share. And then it drops to $45 a share and I literally lost with a thousand shares $25,000. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe it. It happened in minutes. And so suddenly there, I dropped from this point here all the way back down to about here. It was like almost all the way back down to this level. And so, you know, I had made some good progress over those previous six months and then all the way back down. And so when this happened, I was gutted. I was devastated. But my account was still had enough money in it that I could keep trading. And so I just like I had on this day, I stepped back for a little bit and then when I came back and sat down at my desk, I sort of asked this question, how do I move forward from here? And I said, you know, this right here was not a flaw in the strategy. The strategy works. Look at it, you know, over the last six months, look what you did. And I looked at my metrics from this stretch. I looked at my, you know, profit to loss ratio, my average winners versus my average losers, my accuracy, you know, I looked at everything. And I was like, this was phenomenal. And if I traded all of that instead of with an average of, let's say, you know, whatever, 2000 shares, if I trade that with an average of 4,000 or 8,000 shares, you know, that wouldn't have been that. That would have been two times three times four times as much money. You've got something that works. This right here was from a motion. I was emotionally hijacked. I failed to follow the rules of my strategy on that day right there. I fell into the trap. I was looking for a hell-married pass. It took a big risk and it did not connect and I got completely smoked. And so as we jump into this class here, the big lesson in preparing to start trading is this reminder that profits are a byproduct of the process. You have to follow the rules. It was easier for me to follow the rules after I'd hit rock bottom. And after this low point here, I mentally pressed the reset button. And they said, actually, in those days, I had an actual calendar that I kept on my desk and I would write the profit for each day. And I was like, I can't bear to look at that one day. So I just took a sticky note and I just covered that one day. So that one day, the calendar, I was just covered it up like that and I just like, forget about that. And that made me feel better because I was like, you know what? In a way, that was just one day. And if I take away that one day, this month looks phenomenal. And yes, I did lose this amount of money, but does that actually change how much I trade each day? It did reduce my buying power. So it did set me back a bit. But for the most part, I was able to kind of get right back on the horse and continue on and just almost pretend that day didn't exist. And so then over the next, you know, I sort of had this slow recovery and, you know, we'll talk about this recovery process in a second. And then I ended up getting back all the way up to here. And once my account hit about $100,000, I took out, you know, $35,000 or whatever it was to pay off all my credit card bills. And I was still left with, you know, $65,000 in the account, which is more than I needed for trading. And and that was the beginning of me really turning the corner. But it required a tremendous amount of discipline to follow the rules. And I still have had, you know, through this period, I still have set facts that the frustrating thing is on the one hand, you think, oh, I've made it. I'm never going to make that mistake again. And I wish that that could be the case, but we're human. And it's not the case. And I wish there were a better solution, but it's just the reality that you will make these mistakes. I've made them and I continue to make mistakes periodically in my trading. And as disappointing as it is to make them, I think the best that you can get to is where you recognize that you're starting to slip before you go into a full blown, you know, like a full blown spiral. And so, you know, that's kind of, that's kind of thing is I've gotten better at recognizing that I'm beginning to sort of, you know, go on the cusp of an emotional hijack. I've gotten better at recognizing the triggers. And that also was tied back into journaling where I was journaling while I was trading. And so I'd start writing, I'm getting frustrated, I'm getting angry. I can't believe this isn't working. And the next thing you know, I'd be like, well, I'm down five grand. And so the more times I saw that pattern unfold, the better I got it saying, you know, the second you write, I'm frustrated, walk away right there. And it felt like I needed, you know, that intervention of like, how can I interrupt this thought process that I'm on sooner, you know, before I'm completely overtaken by the emotion. And so that requires a pretty high level of what I would say is emotional intelligence, which you're going to be cultivating during your experience of learning to trade. You know, it's been introduced in the trading psychology chapter. And we're going to keep coming back to it because it's something that you you'll keep working towards. Okay, so, so I wanted to share all that with you to sort of really set the stage for preparing to start trading. So in essence, what I'm going to do for you is I'm going to set out a blueprint. It's the blueprint that I followed. I've done it, did it when I first got started and I've repeated it every time I've done a small account challenge. It's the only way that I've learned how to consistently grow small accounts. This is a technique that works really well for me. And works really well when I have the discipline to follow the rules. So I'm going to put this on the table for you. And you can pick it up and you can start implementing it in your trading in a simulator first, of course. But what you have to bring to the table is the discipline to follow the rules and the discipline to dedicate yourself to the process and not be focused just on your P&L. When you get obsessive about your P&L, I'm red today and I'm so frustrated. That's when you start getting emotional. That's when you start making mistakes. So we've got to go really slowly. All right. So now in today's lesson, we're going to dive a little bit deeper on the risks of being a trader. We're going to talk about the profit trifecta and your profit loss ratios. I'm going to talk about using the simulator, take away the period right there. And when the trade was real money and then the process of recovering from loss. In chapter 15, I will present to you the blueprint for the strategy. So trading is a career of discipline. And I say this all the time, it is a marathon, it is not a sprint. Success never comes overnight. Long, sustained success doesn't happen overnight. Sure, there'll be people that have beginners locked, they hit a grand slam, but that's not a career. This is a career that we've built on discipline. When we trade, we can choose the amount of risk we're willing to take on any trade. That's always your choice. How much are you willing to risk? Traders are only really traders when they're thinking about how much they're risking before taking the trade. People who are gambling are thinking only about profit potential when they take a position. And when they take a bet, they're thinking just about how much they could make. So this is true with sports gambling, it's true with Las Vegas, and it's true in the market. There are people that come into the market and they gamble. They're not trading, they're gambling. It's only a trade, in my opinion, when you're thinking about your risk and you're doing an analysis of what you stand to lose versus what you stand to make. Every trade is a potential for profit, an opportunity for profit, with a potential for risk. We measure these two components of a trade and consider them our profit to loss ratio. So in addition to profit loss ratio, every trader, of course, after they've been trading for some time, has a percentage of success, which is their accuracy. This is the percentage of the time that you're right. And so if you're going to invest, not that this is a thing, but if you're going to invest in a trader or back a trader, for instance, what metrics would you look at? I suppose you would want to see what their accuracy is, what their consistency is, over long periods of time, what their profit to loss ratio is, and the trader that is the highest performing is the one that you would want to back. And today, you as a trader would probably not be someone yet that too many people would want to back, because you haven't yet proven that you've got high accuracy. So then you can believe in yourself, and you can believe that you're going to be a trader that is able to achieve these metrics. But until you prove it, that you can perform above average, you should not put real money behind your strategy, until you can prove you could be consistently returning a positive ROI, return our investment, you should keep your money invested somewhere else, and you should just use a simulator. I mean, really, that's the reality. So trading no doubt is a career of discipline. When I think about risk and reward, when I first got into the market, the market, I really didn't have a good concept of how I was stacking the odds against me, and making it statistically almost impossible for me to succeed. And the reason that I was doing this was because without knowing it, I was risking two dollars for every dollar that I was making. So in those early years, my average losers were twice the size of my average lose, and if your average loses are two times the size of your average lose, you'd be right, 67% of the time, just to break even. That's your break even point. So you know, if you, in those days, are trading with a close to the charge of emissions, whichever it was, you'd be at 775% in order to make money. And you could see kind of like, if that's the case, you could see the price. Okay, it's 775. In other words, if I consistently traded with a negative profit loss ratio, I would only be breaking even, and I would not have made $22 million. But now, my average winners are 1,300. My average losers are 1,400. That's over the last 10 years. Again, we look over the last 12 months, something like, you know, a little bit more recent, and my average winners are almost 4,000. My average losers are a little over 2,000. Accuers season proved. So this has been a hotter market, a little closer to a two-to-one profit loss ratio. So if I am doubling whatever I'm risking, making two times profit versus risk, I would only need to be right 33% of the time to break even. Now, doesn't that seem like you're stacking the odds in your favor? So if I present you a strategy where you only need to be right 33% of time to break even, you could be wrong 67% of time and still break even. That's awesome. If you're right, even just half the time, you will make money because of your profit to loss ratio. But that's only going to be the case if you can keep your losses small. So one of the biggest mistakes that so many beginner traders make. So many traders come to me and they say, Ross, I have this terrible habit in my trading. When I'm green, I sell. I get out immediately. I sell way too soon. I watch my winners run without me. But if I'm red, I go down with a ship. I hold all the way to the very bottom. And the net result is that my average losers are bigger than my average winners. In other words, you've got it inverted negative profit to loss ratio. And you're losing money because it's not realistic for a beginner to trade at 68% accuracy. This is, you know, I've been doing this for a long time. I'm at 68% accuracy. So getting a 68% accuracy is not easy. It takes a long time to get there. So most beginners are going to start at 45% accuracy. Sometimes even a little over that. You work your way up to 50, up to 55%, up to 60%. Maybe by the end of the first year, you're in the 60s. Maybe. But not everyone's going to get there. So if you come to the table with a strategy that requires you to be right, 67% of time break even, you stack the odds you've statistically made it harder for you to succeed. I'd like to statistically make it easier. And that means technology that you need to boss you. And so, you're having a lot of money that you're down on the trade. And getting all fixed a day, I'm, oh, no, I'm down $200. I don't want to take this loss. I'm going to hold it and hope it turns around next thing. It's on 200, 300, 400. And now you've lost four times what you probably should have lost. We don't focus on the amount of money. We focus on a proper exit indicator based on the chart based on the level two, which you're going to learn in chapter 15. And so we're actually focusing on proper exit indicator. Then we sell not based on what we see in the PNL, but what based on what the chart is telling you, that is a proper exit indicator. That's the right. So while I always raise two to one profit loss ratio, it doesn't mean I'll always hit it. So some trades will come up. So then we try to back here what we're looking for. That's the top top top. Right. We'll go down maybe a little bottoming tail right here. And now what's our risk? Stop max loss. Is low the pullback. Right. So let's say that $7.50. And Trees first can't let me make a new high. Let's say that $7.75. All right. Profitar, get first. There's always a test of the high a day. Let's say that's $8 a share. And what of course we would like to see in a good market is an extension through that level. So then here, if you're going to risk $0.25 a share, you need potential to make $0.50 on the profit. Now I would like to keep my losses tighter than $0.25. I personally try to keep the losses more like $0.15. So for losses a little too big, it's just easier to make $0.30 than to make $0.50. So let's just say you get up to here, $1.01 and then that would be $2.00. What I might do in this instance is say for this trade, I'm a little old and I'm going to set my stop $7.62. So I'm only taking $0.12. That means $0.24 is $2.00. And that just means when I take a trade, my $0.762. $0.062. $0.062 is the indicator number one is if the price rate is $0.062. And of course all the other ex-indicators are sold out. $0.072. And that is that is creating a starting point. Setting a stop is going to achieve the healthy $2.14 ratio. Now if you have a bottom-in-tail that does one of these way down here, you're never going to hold the bottom back. So it's not realistic to say, oh that's my stop because if this came down that point, you get out and take a look at the price rate. There are many things that are going to stop. And if you take a look at the price, you're going to give me at least $0.20. So look at the chart, I won't take it. So $0.20, that's my goal, it's make $0.20. But if I look at the chart and I can't take that because realistically, keeping stops greater than 10 cents is tricky. You get in, you got a little bit of a spread, it drops down, next thing you know, you're down more than 10 cents. So if something doesn't give me the potentially greater sense, I won't take it. And again, this is focusing on stops between $2.20, $0.20, $0.20, $0.27, that's $0.10. So we're not talking about creating a point of view. So number one, trading is a career of discipline. And number two, in understanding your proper life ratio and committing yourself to following the rules here of the market, the rules of the market, the rules of success in the market, which requires a quality of your work about it and not holding it. And I could hold on the other hand to the work, not telling you to do so, you just need to take your brain, but actually, anything you can get about anything you can do on your business. So then I could get a tip-off, like that. And the way is about to, in just three sources on the top, your first and your first first, that a lot of it. And you could just drop a lot of trades here. Then you'll have a bit of a bit of good stuff. And if the customer traders, again, you're going to be a two to one profit loss ratio or better. You know, there are some traders that can make money at one to one ratio, but if you're one to one ratio, this gets into, in my opinion, your edge being so small that inefficiencies in the market or efficiencies in the market, depending on whether you're the hedge fund or you're the retail trader, could eliminate your profit margin. So it's better to have a bigger profit margin and be closer to one. So that's your first work and fund profitability that you've already covered. Your second work is your accuracy. And yes, being at 55% is pretty low. That's where beginners are typically going to be. Moving your way up to 65% and all the way up to 70%. This is where we really can start to strive and do well. So that's where we start to pull off the drill. That's where we really start to see some metabolic growth rates. Again, that's where you've got a bigger edge. So you can have more cooking, you know, thinking in the market between hot and cold markets. And then that third is your consistency. So when you've got a good profit loss ratio, you've got to add your see that fuels your consistency. And so your consistency is, I look at over the last six weeks, how many would see you've been green? So if you've been green only one week at a last six weeks, you're obviously not a good consistency. You've been green three out of six. That's pretty good. Four out of 65 out of six, that starts to get a little better. It's okay to have revenues. You can't even spend. You just don't want them happening very often. At most, once a month, more than that starts to feel inconsistent. So these are the three core components of profitability. And I keep a take a store of where you're at in trading. So I keep each of these components a total of six points. So six points, six points. So a perfect score of 18. So as of right now, today, I'm at this round, the up to 70% accuracy over the last 10 years, about a one-to-one profit loss ratio. That's slightly better. And this week generally, being consistently green. So I'm scoring a 13. I think I'm going to give myself a perfect score of 18 and adjusted everything. But I didn't give myself some room to drop. Right? No one's perfect, and I'm not perfect. At times, my profit loss ratio for the last 12 months is actually so I actually scoring a 16th rate. Almost seven. And not quite. If I can improve my profit loss ratio, it's a little bit more. I guess. So this is the way I sort of gauge where. So maybe you're coming to table at a three. You know, you've got extra C low. You've got no confusion. You're not a profit loss ratio. So where we start? All right, we get it. I get stuff. All right, so you know what? How do I improve? This is a problem that a lot of people are figuring. So you have always before trapped, so you've got to hit C low. And that feeds for self-confidence. And a high likelihood to fall into the traps of being reckless and emotional, which then increases your losses, which only fuels the trapped reckless and makes you more emotional. And this becomes a negative C-back loop. I want to put it on a positive C-back loop. So if I put you on a positive C-back loop, then what we're really going to be talking about is starting with a tracker. Starting with high accuracy. So if you start with accuracy, you'll have a C-back loop. This is going to be a three. You know, you do. But as you're confidence increases, you're going to feel better, more confident, to take bigger positions and to trade more frequently. And as you trade more frequently, you're going to continue trading more. So you're going to have this positive C-back loop as you can see here. High accuracy, better throttle off ratio, more consistency. Why does higher accuracy improve your throttle off ratio? Because when you have higher accuracy, you have fewer losers. Higher accuracy means you're being more patient. Because usually those outlier losses that really track the high-speed throttle off ratio. So if you're accuracy improves the throttle off ratio of throttle, that's a throttle off ratio. And if you're consistency false, you'll just start by saying, I'm going to be a more consistent person. You start by focusing on higher accuracy. By being more patient, by being through every stock you have reach to five-plus-plus-plus-flex, if you start in there, that's something actionable. If you can do that, that in turn gives you a better throttle off ratio. Then you turn to more consistency. Now, if you're not able to achieve that, you can find a difference. That is the fact that I can even do more experience. That's a fact. There's nothing wrong with that. This is slow. So, this is the first thing. Then, never try. I want to remind you guys, again, it's all a different thing with that. Because there's no such thing going real money on the line. Until you first prove it, you can make money with it, you provide a simulator, so you want to get a free experience. You don't want to be a system to come another player comes in, blows up every one of these years. That's the last thing we want for you. We want to see you approach this process. One of the reasons is to sign out that you have to take the advocate of members joining for a full year, and then you can bring your access to a particular curriculum and my stream of sales. I first joined for a full year. That's the last thing we want to do. That's the next application. That this is going to take time. This isn't like 30-day membership, where you just come in and you can make a lot of money to disappear. You know, this is a time. So, settle in. Some marathon transfer. So, we're going to do this. You're going to see up markets, you're going to see down markets, you're going to see everything in between. You're going to show up every day. You're going to be able to do it. You're going to focus on training stocks at NeedUp 5. Those 5. Those 5. Those are well established. We've been using years of my own training. We made our focus on dating for the set of people and because I've shared with you and you're going to learn what you've done. And so, as you're going through this process, you're continuing to check in with your metrics. And your metrics will help you, guys. Your metrics are your focus. And they show you what you're doing with market. And what's not. I suppose it's not exactly. But they're kind of, I look at the metrics as helping highlight the areas where you're doing really well and the areas that you need to either stop and wait on for a while. So, if your metrics are showing you that you're doing poorly, unstacked or between 15 and 1, you're going to be right now. You don't trade stocks between 15 and 1. So, right now, you hold those and wait for later. But you right now usually find stocks that can have a price even within the stores that you use. And look, in January for me, you may find you better know a more dialed in niche within that. And you can go. You can find one little box of safety. That's it very much. That may keep you from watching that. You try to use that thing first. Survive it. So, you know. And that's what's going on. You can use that for more. And then number four, when it comes to trading for money, you can never trade so much. I see a firm system to see it and profitability. In chapter 15, I'll provide you a change. And you can follow it. Because you can probably use that thing. You should not trade for money. And so, one of the things I'm going to do is to see if you have a capital system. The process of conditioning comes in from the milk. So, trading for money, I'm going to share with you all. Because nothing makes it simple. Later, it can be tried to problem my slow relationship if you use the thing that's scratch. You don't put all my life in the first place. And then you can use that thing instead. So, let's see. And then number five, yeah. So number five, I want to have a couple of problems. Lots. Lots. You can have a tribal rule of thumb that happens with lots. And by the couple of half of the lots, you might sell things. So, you're free to have. What do you know? You're free to rehab to the terms of it. And trade is not a problem for a lot of people. So, what do you mean? You said you got to carry those things in the past. So, you know, a bunch of things. You get to stop putting them out. You don't have to worry. You don't have to stop. You don't have to write this. And so, let's say it's the right day. So, you're not going to have to write this. You're not going to have to write this. So, the last thing you need to do is come in the next one. There you have it. Just like this four, right? I don't know. It's too late. I am. No, no, no, no. That's right, go for it. This is the best weapon I've ever had. You can do that move. You can do that move. So if you need a weapon, you can do that move. How do you know if you need to fight that? You need to fight that. You need the one who can defeat the enemy. You need the one yet. I'm sure I need a harmonia. I can defeat the enemy. That's probably the only problem. You can get a weapon. I'm sure you need a weapon. I have to do that after the boss. That's probably not the only problem. And so after that first boss, unfortunately, what I have to do is I can't believe I need to do this. So if I'm trading with 1000 shares, I reduce it to 250. And I know it's not fun. But it's fine. You can get one. You can do it again. You can do it again. You can do it again. Or you have a harmonia. That's more fun. It's like, alright, I'm back on track. In fact, I can't wait to go back. On a red day, I go to bed early sometimes. I can't feel anything. Clear the slate. One small step at a time. So $1,250 less than $250 share date. A small green date. And then you come in the second one. Another small green date. Good. What I've seen last year is that you can see the smokey days in the green. You can see the smokey days in the green. You can see the smokey days in the green. You can see the smokey days in the green. And then that's more fun. Even that's more fun. And then you can see the smokey days in the green. And then you can see the smokey days in the green. So it's fine. You can see the smokey days in the green. I can pass it on the count of big losses. No smoking, I can't. No sound. No sound. So I put the guard rails back on. I put the train in the back. I'm going to move it. The Tour de France is a train. Yeah. I know. I know. I'm going to move it out. Yes, that's why it's so fast. I'm going to move it out. So I'm going to move it out. No, I'm going to go on a long extended drive of C-Traders. Do that. And they get stubborn. And they refuse to check in the Trader Rehab. And they refuse to check in the Trader Rehab. And they see me now. You know me now. I'm going to see you now. You know what? What do you mean? It's hard to see your way out. How do I do possibly find my way out of this? It's not just the guitar. You can't do bar. It's a left-hand. You're right here. You're right here. You're right here for right now. I'm not going to touch you. I'm going to move it. I'm going to move it to the next two weeks. I can make money. I'm going to move it back. Whatever you're trading with. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. And I'm telling you, you do that for two weeks with real money. All of a sudden you realize, wow. I actually got to see you now. How much I've lost in the past because I've got to see you now. And $200 a day. Because now I've got something that I can take a little on to. I'm going to move it back. We're out of stock. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back. I'm going to move it back.