# Scanning 101
# Extracted: 2026-06-24T08:47:36.276315

 in here on stock scanning 101. I'm going to walk you through how to find stocks in real time. That's the topic of today's lesson. And I'm also going to teach you how to use scanners to essentially lighten your workload. It improves your efficiency rather than you having to manually search through the entire market for any needle in a haystack possible stock that's moving, we're going to put the scanners to work. Use that technology to search the market for you. As a trader, I often say that we're hunters of volatility and managers of risk. The scanners are looking for the volatility. We have to manage the risk. So once we get an idea off the scanner, then we can implement that in our trading. So stock scanning, regardless of what strategy you trade, whether you're trading my strategy, you end up trading something different, you're going to need a method of finding opportunities. There are certainly some people that use Wall Street but they use Reddit and Twitter and social media to find ideas of what to trade. That is not a very effective strategy for long term success in my opinion. I mean, if it works for someone, then that's great. But I haven't known many traders or really any that I can think of in fact, that have built a successful career just trading stocks that they find out about on social media. You kind of need a little bit of a more reliable system for finding good ideas. Again, I suppose if you really got pretty good at understanding the themes on social media, you could probably see what's trending and use that to get an idea and then manage your risk on it. But I think that that would be a fairly inconsistent approach. Now, other traders who are trading focusing on breaking news, such as me, will subscribe to Newsfeed. They'll subscribe to a Bloomberg terminal, which is $2,000 a month. They'll subscribe to other news services, which can be anywhere from $500 to $1,000 or $2,000 a month, even higher. And I actually found that to be a very difficult way to trade. I tried subscribing to those types of platforms. And if I open the newsroom here, so we do have a newsroom, as you can see right here, that's giving you all of these headlines. But the fact is, it's really hard to know just by reading them. Which of these headlines are really going to be actionable and which ones will have no effect on the share price of the stock? So if I just go full screen here and we just look at some of these headlines, so this one here, oh, I've got a link it, but it's OK. So SMX. So this one had a headline right there. And the stock did nothing. Absolutely no response. SAGT, this one had a headline right here. Absolutely nothing. So being the first one to get news isn't necessarily helpful. Being the first one to see a stock starring to squeeze, now that is a different story. So it's sort of the chicken or the egg. What comes first? The stock squeezing or the news headline? It is the news headline that comes first. But because there's thousands of news headlines that come out every day and most of them do not result in stocks making big moves, it's more reliable to wait for the stock to start moving than to look for every stock that has breaking news if that makes sense. So just this morning, for instance, we had this stock, ENVB. This hit our scanner right up here. It hit one of the other scanners a few minutes earlier. So let's see, it was our running up scanner. So it hit the running up scanner, probably just after 8am. So if we scroll back on this, yeah, it hit the running up scanner at $2.78. So if we back this up, we'll go over here. Let's see. So how actionable was it to get this alert here paired with an audio notification that this stock was popping up with breaking news at 801? And that was right down here when it was at $2.78. That was pretty actionable, right? And this ended up going from 280 all the way up to a high of 440. Now, although it came back down, it had breaking news. It met our five pillars of stock selection and it made sense to focus on that stock. Did I trade it? Absolutely. Locked up $12,000 on it. Now, could this have gone to $6, $7, $9, $10 a share? Sure, and I would have kept trading it. It came back down a little disappointing, but nonetheless, this is the way I approached trading. I'm looking for stocks that are moving. So while it's helpful to have the news feed right here, because some of the stocks that are on the news feed will be a familiar name, or sometimes a stock will be hitting the scanner like ENVB. And then we scroll up and we see that there's a news headline that's come out on it. I will say that this news feed right here does not pick up every single headline. It's a service that we pay for. And it puts headlines into the room specifically on smaller cap stocks. So ENVB, the headline was posted right there at 801. So then if you had already seen ENVB hitting the scanner, while you could have also pulled up the stock quote window and seen the news, if for whatever reason you miss that, you would have seen in the chat room that news post. So in any event, one of the things that I have seen traders try to do is try to be the first one to get breaking news. And being the first one to get breaking news is actually not helpful because you don't know what to do with it. How do you know? Unless you're really familiar with that company, how do you know that headline is good versus bad? It's hard to tell. And so for me, it's almost like, have you ever been at a stoplight in the light turns green, but no one starts driving? And you're like, well, wait a second. Am I missing something here? Well, hold up. Maybe I should wait also. Is there like a train? I don't know what's going on. And then one person goes, you know, I go, OK, all right, I guess we're good, right? It's kind of like that. So being the first one to get the news, actually not helpful. Trying to read every single headline, also not helpful. I wait for the stock to start to move. And that's what I need scanners for. Now, I would group scanners into kind of two categories, which I'm going to explain here in just a moment. But the way I use scanners is I observe stocks on the scanners, and then I check the five pillars of stock selection. So that's pretty straightforward. I see a stock like ENVB that hits the scanner right here. And while I could scan strictly for stocks that meet all five pillars of stock selection, what I would be doing is perhaps casting a little bit too small of a net. Because sometimes there are stocks that are a little on the outskirts of the five pillars. They're close. And they could come into the five pillars. I'll give you an example. So let's say we've got a stock. We've got our five pillars here. And I'm going to throw this one away. It's not working as well. So number one, we've got price, two and 20. We've got number two up at least 10%. We've got number three relative volume of five, number four, news, number five float under 20 million. So what if we had, for instance, a stock that was $1.80? And everything else checked out? Well, if it keeps going up, it'll be above $2. And then it'll fall within the five pillars pretty quickly. So it makes sense that I should probably open the filter on my scanners to allow lower price stocks. What about a stock that's a $25, but it meets all these pillars? Well, it might be worth considering that. I don't know that I should rule it out. Even though I do the best between two and 20, it's not that I don't make money above 20. So that would probably be OK. So then the price filter can be a little bit more open. What if a stock meets all these pillars, but it's up only 8%. Well, it's moving quickly. It's probably going to be up 10% before you know it. And I want to get in early. I want to see it early. So maybe that filters a little later. What if the relative volume is only 3, but volume's coming in? Well, before you know it, it'll be 5. I want to see it soon. What if it doesn't have news, but it meets all of these ends moving? And I probably still want to know, because that sounds interesting. GameStop didn't have news, but it went up as much as it did. So these ones, I can be a little bit more flexible about. The float, I'm a little less flexible about. The float, you know, the float tire, that's really going to, that's not changing. That's going to affect all of this. It's going to affect, because this is such a critical component in our relationship between supply and demand. All of these are demand and supply is right here. So if one of the characteristics of demand is a little off, I can usually work with that. But if the supply is too high, that's usually going to be a no go. So for that reason, with my scans, I have a couple different scans, but one of the ones that I'm the strictest about is float. The exception is when we have a stock, we do have a medium float scan, which some traders asked for, so we built it out. I don't personally use it very much. And then we also have the squeeze up 5% and squeeze up 10%. So if a stock is moving, even if the float's higher, I'll let it come through the scans, so I'll take a look at it. So even though you could filter these scans as tight as you want it and make it truly only show five pillars, I cast a slightly wider net. So that means when a stock first hits my scans, I do have to observe and check how closely does this actually meet my five pillars of stock selection. Is this one that meets it very closely? Or is this one that is a little on the edges? From there, I check to see if the intraday chart looks good to confirm that the price action is near the highs. So if a stock hits my scanner, or maybe a stock is on one of my scans, and I pull up the chart, and I see that, let's see, we had this stock yesterday or the day before, B-E-N-F. So this stock was on our scans on this morning right here, because it was up from the previous day's close, like 50-60 percent right here. When I sat down at 7 a.m., it was still up 50-60 percent. But when I looked at the intraday chart, I could see that the move started after hours and it had already started selling off. So that wasn't that interested, right? Doesn't really look that good. The chart's already pulling back. It's not great. But if I pull it up and let's say it looks like this, and it's moving pretty quickly, then what's the next step? So I pull that up, I pull up the intraday chart, then I check the daily chart, looking for nearby areas of resistance, recent history of big rejections. And then if that all looks good, I open up my level two. I open up my time in sales, I check easy to borrow, hard to borrow, short sale restriction, I check the spreads and the thickness or thinness of the order book. And then I'm ready to take a potential entry, based on one of the familiar patterns that we are learning, and execute the trades. Typically, it's going to be the first pullback. And so that's basically what occurs in the moments following an alert off of our scans. Now, as I mentioned, there's sort of two types of scans, well, maybe three. So we offer two types of scans inside this platform. One of the scans is a scan that provides an alert. The moment a stock is hitting the criteria of what that scanner is looking for. And the other is a list of all stocks that currently meet the criteria of what that scanner is looking for. So if you had a stock, for instance, a scanner looking for all stocks under $2, then every single stock under $2 would be on that list. If you're saying, I want to see a stock that is making a new high of day price between $2 and $3, then each time that stock makes a new high of day, it's going to register an alert, and that's an alert scanner. So one is a list, and the other is creating an alert. And so these two windows certainly do go hand in hand, any scanning window and the stock quote window. And I always want to make sure that they're linked. So when I click on one of the stocks that are on this list, it'll automatically update my stock quote window. And then similarly, what I'd like to do, of course, is extend that to linking out to some charts. So I click on LGHL, it updates the stock quote window, it updates the chart, and I can check the daily chart. I can begin doing my due diligence. And of course, one step further on that would be actually connecting it, opening your level to window right inside the platform, and then you can also look at the level to and see, all right, what are the spreads on this look like? So each day, I begin with building a watch list. This is not a watch list. This is not a watch list. I do it tonight. It's a watch list I do in the morning, and it's based off my top gainer scanner. So my top gainer scanner right here, top gappers and top gainers, these are stocks right now that are opening higher than the previous days close. So what's the difference between a top gapper and a top gainer? A gap occurs during the after hours and pre-market trading. It results in the stock opening higher than the previous days close. So our gap scanner stops updating at 9.30am. Therefore it preserves a picture of the market right at 9.30, which was the gap scanner. All the stocks that were gapping higher than the previous days close. The top gainer scanner works from 4am to 8pm and is giving you a list of the top gainers in the market versus the previous days close. So top gainer scanner keeps updating after 9.30, the top gapper scanner stops updating. So why would you want the top gapper scanner? Later in the afternoon, you might want to go back and check what were our top gappers at 9.30am. If you were using the top gainer scanner, it would not be preserving a picture of what the market looked like at the opening bell. And because a lot of traders want to have that picture of how things looked at 9.30, we have the two separate scans. So one is top gappers, one is top gainers. These are both, however, a list. So they're giving us a list of all the stocks that meet a certain set of criteria. And you can see on this scanner, we are casting a slightly wider net. We have some higher float stocks on here. We have some higher price stocks on here. So what are the minimum thresholds or criteria for this scanner? For this one, I just look for stocks that are above 50 cents and are gapping up at least 5%. That's the minimum. So it's going to give me that list for the entire market. So let's see. So if I pull this, oops, let me grab this. So if I pull this window up here, double click there. So we'll go to scanners. Let's see. Which one do I want to do? Topgappers. So the topgapper scanner right here, this was how many stocks were up more than 5%. Maybe did we move the threshold? We might have moved it to 7%. Maybe we did. No, that one's six. No, I think it is still five. There just wasn't anything in between there. All right. So in the market today, there were, I mean, how many is this? Let's see. We'll just do a quick two, four, six, eight, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20. So probably 40, maybe 50 or 60 stocks in the entire market that were up more than 5% today. And so what this scanner has effectively done is it's weeded down from all of the stocks in the market down to a list of 60. That's good. That's definitely improvement. Now what I know is that usually I'm only going to be interested in the top three or four leading gainers. They've got to be the most obvious. So now it's these ones I'm going to be focusing in on. And generally that's where I end up finding my traits. So each morning when I sit down, I am using the topgainer scanner, rather than the topgapper scanner. So it does keep updating after the opening bell. And I'm just going to go through stock by stock and check each one. I'm checking the percentage that it's up, sort of getting by that. Am I familiar with the company? And then what's the symbol? I'm sorry, what's the symbol? What's the news? Does it have news right here? How late recent is the news? Is it older? Is it fresher? The hotter the color, like a flame, the fresher the news, the sort of yellow is older. I check the price. I check the volume. I check the float. I check the relative volume. Now we do have some additional columns over here for short interest and for relative volume on the five minute. I don't look at those quite as much. So these are really what I'm looking at most closely. And then at that point, it's really how well does this stock meet my five pillars of stock selection? And how's the chart look? Both five minute, daily, one minute. And then what's the level two look like? So then I pull up the level two. I see what the spreads are. Is it hard to borrow? Is it easy to borrow? And at that point, I could begin potentially taking a trade. So that's generally the way I approach the market each morning. So that's our top gapper scanner and our top gainer scanner. Now I'll just take a moment just to say that other platforms do provide scanning. I'm walking you through how to do scanning here with this platform. But for instance, if you go to a finger swim, you can do some scanning with finger swim. It's a bit more primitive. And the types of scans that they offer are what I would call more of a screener than a scanner. What is the difference between a screener and a scanner? Well, if we go over to FinViz, this is a website that's been around for a long time. This is a screener. You give it a set of criteria like all stocks under $20, for instance. And then you run it, let's see, does it update automatically? Can't remember. Yeah, you just change it and it updates automatically. And right now it's giving me about 1200 stocks. And so this is just a list. It's a static list that does not change. It's just a list of all the stocks that are under $20. So it's kind of, I mean, it's kind of like a gap scan except that a lot of these platforms certainly that are free are not providing real-time data. So if they're not providing real-time data, then obviously how useful it is is somewhat limited in my opinion. But let's see. So we do float of under $10 million. We do float of under $5 million, float of under $1 million, 86 stocks that are under $20 and under $1 million, under $5 million. So that's, they're $10 million. So this is a list of 866 stocks. Now of course you could store it by percentage change up or down. But you know, for me, I don't find these to be super helpful. I think as a beginner trader, a scan like this in terms of keeping costs low could be helpful in giving you a daily watch list of which are the leading gainers. But the problem is that these scanners are constantly changing. It's very dynamic. So all of a sudden we have a stock that starts moving. So you see this column right here. These are arrows when a stock is moving up. So what just happened right there is CCHH moved up and BRLS moved down. So they swapped places, right? And so this became our leading gainer. And these one swapped places. And these one swapped places. And sometimes you'll see a stock that jumps a lot of places. And this happens a lot when we have a stock that's squeezing up the scans. So for instance right here, ASPB, BP, this one right here. Look how it just jumped five, six spaces. One, two, three, four, five. Those all went down and this one jumped up in front of it. So this is a stock that's suddenly popping up. Just past 8 a.m. That could be interesting. Now I'm not saying that this is something I would definitely trade. But that's definitely something I would pay attention to. And so I need a list that is dynamic, is updating in real time. Because that way I can see the movement of stocks on this list. A static list, I mean, again, you can get some value out of it. But that's going to be more limited. A list like this is much more valuable for me. And now so this is our low flow top gainer scanner. So this scan actually sets a flow max of five million shares. So this is taking the same top gainer scanner with a 50 cent minimum price. But it's adding a five million dollar maximum float. And so all of a sudden boom, that gives us certainly all the low float stocks. And it's our low float top gainer scan. So now we've added a slightly more filtered version of our top gainer scanner, which makes sense. This float is one of the pillars that is unchangeable for the most part. And it's so important. It is logical that there would be a scan that isolates those specific stocks. Now on this one, when I keep it up on my platform, the way I use it is, let's see, where's this? I'll show you here. So I just have it in the bottom corner. And I pay attention to the leading gainers here. Typically, there's a pretty strong correlation between the top gainers and the low float top gainers. Occasionally, there's a little bit of a discrepancy. So right now, you've got TRNR, which is above five million, 5.25. And you've got KNRX, which is at 18.95 million. So they're not on this list right down here. And then AHAMA, yep, that's on there. So it's just a slightly more filtered version. MLEC is not on here. And I wonder if it's because we have a price cap of $20 a share. I think we might. So this one, again, being slightly more filtered. Yeah, it's got a price cap. Which is fine. Is MLEC something I would want to trade? Yes, it's low float. I don't know. It's pretty volatile, bigger spreads. You know, with that one, we can look at the spreads on it. I imagine they're bigger because of the price. But you know, oh, there's the hot down level, LULD. There's a buyer down there. But yeah, you've got big spreads. 1904 by 1940. So this one's going to be a little bit riskier. Again, it's an opportunity. There's an argument for leaving the price cap higher. But how high do you do put it? 30, 40, 50, 100, 200? I mean, what about that stock we had? TCGL, a week ago, two weeks ago, that went from $8 to $360. Should we have excluded that one? I mean, I don't know. At a certain point, you draw the line. So in any case, that's where it's at $20 for that particular stock or that particular scanner. So that's our low-flow top-gainer scanner. The next scanner that I use is the recent reverse split scanner. So this is a scanner showing all of the recent reverse splits. You can see the split over here on the side. And then you can just sort it by the percentage change today. So if I see a stock on the top of the scanner that's moving higher, I know it's got this daily stock type. Recent reverse splits can be a daily stock condition where we see really big moves. So because we know that, I have this scanner. Now what I will sometimes do with this scanner is I will check it on sort of a weekly basis to look for new stocks that are meeting the criteria recent reverse split. Because sometimes these are stocks that are worth keeping an eye on because if they do come out with breaking news in the coming weeks, you could end up having a huge move. So just sort of having in your mind, oh, VSME. It's got a recent reverse split or EDHL, recent reverse split. And what was the day to the split? You check the day, you check the price, you'll get the daily chart. And you just kind of keep that one in your mind. That's one maybe I should keep on sort of a, just I don't know if you'd say exactly a watch list. But I'm just going to keep that in mind that that's one that if I see it hit one of my scanners, with breaking news, I'm already going to be a little familiar with it. Recent IPO scanner serves the same purpose. I'm not necessarily going to trade these stocks the day they're on the scan, but it's a list of recent IPOs. And those are worth keeping an eye on because we can get that recent IPO daily setup where you get a nice curl. And when you get a nice curl because the stock is a recent IPO, it can be at all time highs very quickly. And that gives you a lot of upside. There's no daily resistance. So recent IPO scanner, also a good spot to look for, potential ideas. Again, that's not going to be the scanner. I'm using every single day. It's more of the scanner that I use to, you know, just have sort of a weekly watch list. So my weekly watch list is typically recent IPOs, recent reverse splits. And some continuation stocks, continuation stocks. And I'll show you that scanner in a second. All right, so another scanner that I use, and actually we'll let me back this out for one second. So I'll show you that in a second. I'm going to move the continuation scanner up because it's more logical with the flow that I'm going with right now. So the continuation scanner, this is a scan for stocks that have had the biggest range within the last two weeks. So stocks have had a really big range in the last two weeks are worth keeping an eye on. They can have a very close following. A lot of people are paying close attention to them. One of the downsides is that because they've made such a big move, they may have had very high relative volume on the day that they first started squeezing. But now the volume might be lower than those days. So we might have lower relative volume. But actually as an example, that ticker I was just showing you that was a little bit higher priced, that was a stock that I had traded back on Friday and made about $43,000 on. That was on this day right here when it popped up. Then it pulls back on Monday. Then Tuesday squeezes up again. And then here again, continuing higher. So this is absolutely a continuation setup. But look at the discrepancy or the divergence with high volume on the initial day it had news. And now it's continuing higher, but on lighter volume, continuing higher even yet, but on still lighter volume, that feels a little strange. And that's not uncommon. You see this big high volume day, and then it pushes somehow higher even on lighter volume. So this is volatility. There's an opportunity, but on lighter volume, there's not as much liquidity. So the spreads are a little bigger. So I prefer day one of breaking news. I actually haven't traded it on either of these two days right here. I only traded day one of breaking news. And so the strategy that I'm going to be teaching you at the end of day, train the basics is going to be focusing on day one breaking news. But nonetheless, the continuation scanner is something that I will use on a weekly basis. Usually on Sundays, Sunday night, or you could do it early, early Monday morning, I just take kind of the temperature of the market. Well, we're some of the stocks I made good money on last week. What was moving in the last week? Continuation scanner. What were some of our big moves from last week? What are some recent reverse splits? What are some recent IPOs? And it just kind of gives me a flavor of what's going on in the market. Doesn't necessarily mean I'm actually going to trade any of them because of course, for the recent reverse splits and recent IPOs, we really do need a breaking news catalyst. But usually there's only a few stocks on those scans that are interesting. And usually, more often than not, within the next couple of weeks, we will get a headline on them. And we will get a move. So it kind of gives me just a little bit of a jump. If I'm already having that stock in the back of my mind, I've already looked at the daily chart. I've already checked the flow, and I'm familiar with the ticker. So if I did this right now, for instance, let's see. So right now, well, we'll do that in a second. In a few minutes, I'll do a little demonstration of building a watch list. But first, let's continue going through the next scans. So then the last list, list-style scanner that I'm going to share with you is the after-hour top gainer scanner. And if, let's say you trade in the morning from 7am to 10am, 11am, and then you take off for the rest of the day, the next morning you sit down, you may be curious, well, what was strong yesterday? And of course, you can check the top gainer scanner, which will show you all of yesterday's top gainers. But if you check that in the morning, then it's showing today's top gainer gainers. So I like to check after-hours top gainers to show me some of the biggest moves in the after-hour session of the previous day. That gives me a sense of, oh, these were stocks I had news after hours, and now they might continue higher in the pre-market session. So that's another way of getting a little bit of an early watch list started in the morning based on what was strong in the previous session. So our top gainers, well, all of our list style scanners, the list style scanners do not have audio alerts. So they're a scan that update. They're updating on the volume. They're updating on the price. They're updating on the changes. We set the frequency to update. It's not every second, because that would have a little bit too much load on your browser. But they're updating throughout the day. They update pretty regularly. So these scans are just giving us a list of all the stocks that meet the criteria of the parameters for that scanner. So when we go in here to our top list, you can see there's a number of them here. Here's another one that I could add actually to the list. So this one right here is, I'll just pop this out. This is my five pillars scan. Some people have objected to the naming of it, because it actually doesn't require that a stock has news in order to be on the five pillars scan. While I like to have news, this is showing me stocks that meet at least four of the five pillars. The fifth one is that it doesn't have to have news. So that means this stock meets our criteria of price, change, relative volume, and float. And then we check to see whether it has the news flame. So technically it's the four pillars, but it's looking for stocks that are potential five pillar candidates. So I'm going to add that to our, let's see, I'll add that right here first. So that was the last one. Now that scan also, let's see, Ross's five pillars list scanner. That scanner also has an accompanying alert scan, which is right here. An alert scanner, this is interesting. So as of right now, the only stock that met the criteria for being on my five pillars list, meaning it currently meets all of the five pillars and the stock is still holding in the top 20% of its range. So that means it cannot be at the bottom down here. Because if it is, I don't really want to look at it. I don't care about it. So this scanner is also filtering for position within range, and it needs the stock to be up around the top. So this stock ENVB hit my five pillar scanner, but then dropped off it as the stock pulled back too low and wasn't able to hold in the top 20% of the range. However, what's helpful is that this is an alert scanner, and you can set the bell right here to an audio sound. So you set your audio sound to whatever you want, and then you check it. And now you'll get the audio alert when a stock meets those five pillars. So you can see over the course of the day, starting at 547, we had our first stock that met the five pillars at that time, it was Ruby. So boy, that stock definitely met it at a couple of times, but then as you can see, it's pulled back quite a lot now. It's unattractive daily chart with that sell off. But nonetheless, that's fine. The stock was popping up, it was moving quickly. It met the criteria to be on the scan. And then the next one was ENVB, then the next one was CDIO, and CDIO is still meeting it even right now. Then we had RBNE, which met it briefly. And so at that moment, the stock was on the scan, it met our criteria, and so it was worth watching. If it stayed on the scan, that would have been fine. But by converting these criteria into an alert scan, we get the benefit of the audio notification. So each day, when I sit down, what is my process of building a watch list? Okay, so where's my slide deck up? So the first thing that we're doing, and let me put my slides back up. So this one, nope. I probably have, I'm setting a record for most browser windows right now. Where did I move that? I'm gonna have to open a new one, maybe. Sorry. Just trying to see where this is. Oh, there it is. Okay. So if we go back up to the top, these right here, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, these are the eight probably most commonly used scanners on our platform. And when I build my watch list each morning, these are the first scanners that I'm looking at. And so again, what's the process? I am looking at the scanners. So number one, I sit down, let's pretend it's 6.35, 6.45. I sit down, what's the first thing I check? This scanner right here. And what am I looking for? I'm looking at the top three gainers. I already see this has a float that's 19 million shares. I don't love that. Based on the price being $2.87, I can almost guarantee that it will be thickly traded, that the level two will be extremely stacked. And so let's check, let's see how we're gonna open this. All right, so let's look at the level two on this one. It was, what was the ticker? K and Rx. So it is pretty thickly traded with one cent spread. It doesn't look as stacked as I imagined it would be, but it's pretty thickly traded. So what that means is typically when they're very thickly traded like that, they become more difficult to, they don't experience the same level of volatility. So they're more difficult to trade, they're more difficult to make money on. So that one is off the list. Now it's a problem because if our leading gainer is, that's what everyone's trading, that's what everyone's focusing on. I might not like it, but it's what people are focusing on. That's gonna be a distraction. People are gonna trade that instead of what else might be on the scans. The next one is TRNR. So, and I'm for what it's worth. So I check the float, I check the price, I look at the level two, the daily chart on this one is fine. It's a nice daily chart and it actually has blue sky here above $4 a share, and that's an important consideration. The thing with blue sky being up here is that this now tells us that this is a somewhat recent IPO. And somewhat recent IPO's are actually more likely to experience a big move even if the float is slightly higher because a lot of the shares are restricted. So, could we, so again, that's a scenario where the float could be 1920, even 25 million shares, but it's a recent IPO, so it's not gonna trade like a 20 million share float. And that does help explain, I suppose, some of the volatility today. So that's a nice daily chart. We check the catalyst, AI, okay, that's on theme, where's the company located, Singapore, it's on the NYC exchange, okay? So we know if it halted during regular trading hours, we wouldn't be able to see the resumption quotes, but that's fine for pre-market. So this is a stock that maybe is worth considering. All right, because of that daily chart, maybe it is worth considering. So then at that point, you pull up the level two and as you're looking at the level two, the question is, what are the spreads on this? What are we doing here? What are the spreads on this? And is this something that I could feel comfortable jumping in? And then if I see the setup that I like, boom, I take the trade. Number two on the scan is TRNR. That one for me is too cheap, so I immediately jump over it, but I keep in mind, there's 200 million shares of volume on it, people are focusing on this stock. That's gonna be a distraction from other stocks that might have been better. Okay, the third one, BATL. Well now it's only 35% gain, it's not as big of a gain, is there news? I don't see any recent headline on it. It's an oil company, fossil fuels, okay? Chart, it does show it made a big move, then sold off, coming back up here, without a catalyst and being in the energy sector, feels a little hard to trust unless there's a global event causing energy prices to go up, but still seems a little bit suspect. Then we have MLEC right here, definitely the lower, on the lower float range, but no news on this one. Luxembourg is the country code. Biotech, okay, right sector, room to the 200 moving average, but that continuation, a little tricky, likely gonna have bigger spreads. So again, we pull up the level two on that one, we see that the spreads are a little bit bigger and maybe we say, well, I don't know, I might not be able to manage my risk. We check to see as the stock easy to borrow, it was a hard to borrow, it was on short sale restriction, and so like that, I'm able to kind of build a watch list. Now of course, I could check my after hours top gainer scanner, and if we did that, we would see that after hours yesterday, this was a leading gainer. However, by pre-market, it was already pulling back, right? So that's no good. JZXN, this was a gainer, that pulled back. BOXL, which I skipped over over here, made a move after hours and continued a little bit pre-market, but not as much. So now you get a sense of, all right, there's nothing on the after-hour scanner that's helpful. And then what about our recent reverse split scanner? Any of these moving today? CISS, starting to pop up a little bit. Okay, is there a catalyst? You know, yeah, I don't know, there's a couple headlines there. I have to read them because they're SEC filings, but very low float. Certainly that's true. You know, I don't know, it's a little hard to say. The total volume on it, it's got quite a bit of volume. It's only up 38%. A-R-E-B, you check that one, that one's too cheap. You want an O-E, check that one. Not much of a daily chart, nothing we could do there. It doesn't have volume. So those ones aren't up enough. And you do the same thing with a continuation scanner in the recent IPO scan. So now you go through each of those, you check the scans, how closely they meet the five pillars of stock selection. We check our intraday chart, we check our daily chart, we open the level two, check EZ Barra Hard to Barra Short Sale Restriction, check the spreads, is the stock marginable, is it thickly trades it thinly traded, and then we're looking for a potential entry of everything checks out. So that's building the watch list. And these are the scanners I used to build that watch list, right? So top gainers, top gainer, top gapers, top gainers, low float top gainers, recent reverse split, recent IPO continuation after hours top gainer, and Rossis five pillar scanner. OK, and then I add to the watch list. So every morning when I sit down, I do create a watch list, it's a watch list of the stocks that are the leading gainers in the market. It's usually only two or three stocks long. I don't need to create a big watch list. So and again, if I sit down and the two or three leading gainers have floats that are too high, prices that are too low, then they are the leading gainers in the market. I just don't like them. And that's on me. But the fact is, I do best when the leading gainer in the market is also a stock that I like. Because when the leading gainer is a cheap stock, yes, people are paying attention to it, but it's not one that I'll do well on. And all those people paying attention to it, that volume is going on to that stock, instead of the type that I might prefer to trade. There's only so much volume in the market each day. There's only so many active traders. Now there's a lot of active traders, but there's only so many. So let's just say every day there's the potential for 1 billion shares of volume. We will see a billion shares on some of the highest volume stocks. So that could all be on stock number one. It's the leading gainer. Cool. Or it could be split between two stocks. One is 50 cents a share, and the other is a little bit higher. Or it could be split between four stocks, or it gets really split. And when it gets really split like that, unfortunately, none of the variable would make as big of a move. So you split that volume. What you're doing is you're splitting the demand across six stocks. And so if these all have a 10 million share of flow, then you've got, in this case, 80 million shares, 80 million share of flow combined, and 1 billion shares of demand combined. And let's say when that happens, each one goes up 50%. Let's just say for the sake of argument. On the other hand, when it's split between two stocks, one that's cheap and is attractive to penny stock traders, it's like 19 cents a share, and another that's like $5 a share, then you still, then let's say these each have still the 10 million share of flow. Now you've got 20 million shares of combined flow. You have the same amount of demand. And so now all of a sudden, you're seeing each of these being up, say, 4x, what it was. So they're each up 200%, or maybe more. And this isn't an exact formula, but it speaks to just the psychology of what's happening behind the scenes that allows some days for some stocks to make a huge move. And on another day, that same stock with a similar catalyst doesn't work because on another day, attention was more split between more stocks in the market. So when I'm checking my scans, if I notice that, uh-oh, this is one of those days where, ugh, I call it penny stock mania. Everyone's focusing on penny stocks. Not again, I don't usually do well there. That's not the price range I do well on. Or it's Reddit meme stocks. Those tend to be stocks that are a little more expensive and have slightly higher floats. Because the Reddit community really likes trading stocks that have options chains. Because when you buy an option contract, you can buy it for $1. You can buy it for super cheap. And if the stock goes up to $1,000, you'll make $1,000 on it. So turning a dollar to $1,000 is great risk to reward, except your accuracy is like, you know, one out of a million. But those are the lottery tickets that the sort of gambler mentality look for, which is much more prevalent in meme trading and on social media. That's not stuff I'm interested in. So on those days, there won't be as much for me. So there are certain days where just the nature of the scans is that the top gainers aren't as attractive for me. However, we go back to some of the days. I'll pull up some of these screenshots, some of my, you know, bigger days recently. And, you know, this day here, leading gainer, up 154%. Boom. $125,000. And let's look at the stock. It meets the five pillars very nicely. Doesn't have news, which is interesting. But in spite of that, 22 million shares of volume, 250,000 times above average volume, low float, and the price is right, as Bob would say, right? The price is right. So all of a sudden, you know, this is a stock that makes a huge move. What about this one? On this day here, we've got a couple of stocks that are all up quite a bit. Attention is a little more dispersed. So we've got, you know, 107% change on that gain, 173% on this one. This one, which is 173%, I didn't make as much money on. Maybe that was one where the move really started after hours and pre-market, not as big of a move. So we got some action on a couple of others, but a little bit more split. Let's see. This one showed you this one. Again, this is a day where attention was a little bit more split, but we had four stocks up over 100%. So the market was really high. So what was probably happening here is huge momentum. And then when this stock takes a break, another one pops up and everyone jumps over to that one. And that one gets huge momentum. And then that one takes a break, and people come back to this one. And so just a really frothy hot market. On this day here, this is one where we've got a couple of stocks, three that are up quite a lot. One of them has a higher flow and is lower priced. The other two fit pretty well within the price and float parameter, and you get huge moves on those. Let's see, going down a little bit more down here. This one, nice action. This one's up 314% was pretty obvious. Was the leader by far. This one here, up 294%, definitely strong. So this is kind of the theme. These are days where we're capturing, of course, screenshots of some of the bigger green days. But these are days where things were really working nicely. Now, this is actually a perfect transition. SLXN right here. So SLXN, all of a sudden, we see it first hit the scanner right there at 7am. So this is not a stock that was on the scanner at 6.45, or 6.30 when I was sitting down and preparing my watchlist. It wasn't on the scan. Why? The stock had not yet come out with news. The news came out at 7am. So I could spend, you know, you could spend as much time as you want building a watchlist. And on some days, there's not a lot to work with. You sit down at 6.30, 6.45, whatever. You're looking at the scans and it's like, well, geez. You know, none of these really look that great. The floats are too high. The prices are too low. I don't know. But I think that's the best way to do this. I should just be patient. And so being patient means waiting for stocks that you can add to the watchlist. So once I have my watchlist, or potentially lack of a watchlist, I'm looking for stocks to hit my high-of-day momentum scanners as they begin moving up. Those are the scanners that I really prefer. So at the top and the bottom of the hours in a pre-market session, and really any time during the rest of the day, a stock could suddenly hit the scanner as it begins searching up. This could be the opportunity to jump on a breaking news event. So how do we know when news is going to come out? Well, we know that most companies pre-prie-they write, they prepare the news headline with their in-house general counsel. These are all carefully worded and crafted. And then they schedule it for its release. And they schedule it for logical times like 777-38-839. And so if you were to do a study of one of the most common times that headlines come out, well, you could even go to like 4am. And then at the half, and then 5, and then half, which is 536, and then half, 7, half, 8, half, 9, and then half. You would see, without a doubt, did I forget 8? Oh, no, I'm sorry. You would see a huge amount of headlines that come out right at 8am. A decent number at 830, a lower number at 9, almost 0 at 930. Very a couple. It's pretty light. A lot at 730, a good number at 7, not much at 630, not much at 6, not much at 530, not much at 5, not much at 430, not much at 4. And so this is the window. And it's at the top and the bottom of the hour that these companies typically schedule their headlines. So that's the one we're most likely to see news. So now let's think about that. I sit down at 645, I start my stream at 7am. I've got my watch list of couple stocks I'm watching. And maybe they're good, maybe I got a trade, maybe I don't. And then I'm sitting. And so I'm watching 7am. And at 7am, what am I looking at? I'm looking at two scans, three, really. My high of day momentum scanner, my running up scanner, and I often keep an eye on the low-flow top gainer scanner for a little move like that, where the stock jumps up the scan. I really pay attention to that. When the stock jumps up the scan, that can be the opportunity to, oh, here we go, we've got breaking news. So with this example back here that I was just showing you, this is all of a sudden, SLXN hits the high of day small cap scanner. It hits a couple different scans. That's why you see it showing up multiple times. And so on that scanner, if we pull it up, I have audio notifications set up. So this scanner right here, if we scroll over to the left or to the right, you could see the strategy name for the scanner. So this scanning, this alert window, actually has several different strategies all programmed into it. And it becomes a small cap high-day momentum scanner. And so what I could do is I could turn audio alerts on for the individual scans that I'm interested in. And that's exactly what I do. I turn them on for the low-flow scans, and the squeeze alert scans. I don't turn them on for medium float. I don't turn them on for these others. We're actually going to add functionality where you could just hide them completely if you don't want to see them if you're not using them. Just to make it a little cleaner, but we haven't done that quite yet. So then all of a sudden, you know, walking the door, well, I could be. I just opened the door there, go outside. But I don't usually, it shouldn't need to be on a leash. But let's say I'm making some tea, whatever. And then I hear, because my speakers are turned up, ding, ding, ding, I run over to the computer. And I come and I check what's going on. Now usually at the top and bottom of the hour, I won't get up. I'll be sitting here at the top and the bottom of the hour because I know that that's the time we're most likely to get news. And if suddenly a stock like SLXN starts hitting the scanner, boom, it hits the scanner. And immediately, I'm getting the audio notification, which tells me this is a stock that is low float and is moving. So I already know it pretty closely meets some of these criteria that I look for. And so I pull it up, I click on the symbol, I check the news, and I'm immediately checking the daily chart and the intraday chart, and I'm pulling up the level two. And now, for me, I actually have to enter symbols twice. So when I first click here, I'll click a scanner alert and it'll update everything here. And for you guys using our simulator, you get the benefit of being able to click and it'll also, you can start trading right away. So you can see a stock at the scanner, you can click on it, boom, and then click the level two window. You've got to click on the level two window because it has to be highlighted. Level two window has to be highlighted to accept your order. So you do have to click there and then press shift one and you're in the trade immediately. Boom, you can start trading. Control Z, you're out of the trade, boom. All right, in and out, very quick. So that's the benefit with a platform where everything is integrated. However, historically, for in fact, my entire career of trading, there's never been a platform that was good enough that everything was integrated. Everything was always separate. And so I've always been used to pulling up the ticker here, clicking on it, looking at it, and then coming over to light speed and going K and Rx. So I type in K and Rx and then I press shift one. So boom, shift one and just like that, I'm in the trade. And now I'm watching it and I'm looking for this thing to squeeze higher. So put my order up on the ass, take some profit, take a little more profit, whatever. Get out. So I'm used to typing it twice. It's not a big deal. But if you're not accustomed to that, you may need to get used to that unless you're using our platform for a sim. So again, so that's basically my workflow there. Is the stock hits the scanner and I'm immediately running through my due diligence. Now, let me back up for one second. One thing that I haven't discussed yet, but which I will right now, and I'm actually going to make a separate slide for it. So let's see. So we talked about adding to the watch list high-end day momentum scanner. And then the running up scanner. Let me mention this one first. And then I'll talk about the color. The running up scanner. So the logic of the high-end day momentum scanner is that we're receiving market data. And the market data includes every stock that's making a new high-end day because we're getting the time and sales. So as a stock makes a new high-end day. If it makes a new high-end day and meets our five pillars of stock selection and it's moved at least x percent in the last few minutes, we trigger the alert. So that's essentially how these scanners are working. So they're looking for stocks are hitting a new high-end day. The running up scanner does not require a stock to be hitting a new high-end day. It only requires the stocks to be moving. And so this gets a little nuance, but what it means, for instance, is that if K and Rx right here bounces back up and it goes to three and three ten, it'll hit our running up scanner because it's running up. It won't hit the high-end day scanner until it makes a new high-end day. Boom. It needs to break 345. They hit the high-end day scanner. But if it just starts popping up, it could hit the running up scanner. So the reason the running up scanner is helpful is because sometimes we'll have stocks where we get this nice curl. And by the time it hits high-end day, it's already gone up, you know, a dollar a share. So when something starts to squeeze up and it does meet our five pillars, even though it's not at high-end day yet, I like to keep an eye on it. So we're looking at the running up scanner and the high-end momentum scanner. Now I'm going to create another slide here, and I'm actually going to move it to the top. Let's see. All right, so scanner color style guide. So the colors of these scanners are communicating a couple different things. On the small cap high-end day scanner, the horizontal coloring is grouping the scanner strategy. All of the former Momo scanners are that same shade of green. The squeeze-up 10% is this brighter blue color. The bright colors are to gain your attention. The squeeze alert in five minutes, not quite as significant. The low-float high relative volume, that's more significant. And so I have the scanners colored to pop for your eye, based on the horizontal coloring of the strategy name. So the brightest colors here are going to correspond with the strategy, which is over here. Now some of the columns also have coloring. And the lighter colors are usually like, eh, not as good, and the brighter colors are more significant. So when we've got really light volume here, that's not ideal. When we get higher volume, then it gets darker, and pretty much stays the same once you're over a million shares. Float less than 10 million is this brighter blue color. Higher floats are, let's see, higher floats are white, and then ones under between like 10 and 20 are in this green color with a little bit of a gradient. So drawing your eye to the brighter color, the lower-float stocks, those are the ones that are more significant, right? So the low-float top gainer scan, or everything is going to be that same color. But here you see a lot of these have no volume, so it's white. It's not really significant. But then some of them do have higher volume, and so those are darker. Then the total change from the day, that's a gradient with the brightest being the biggest, and the lightest being the lowest down here. Again, volume, float. This shows that nice gradient between being red on the day, break evenish, or green on the day. And yeah, that's the way we have it set up right now. And this is worked really well for me just to help me very quickly when a stock hits my scanners, or even when I first sit down in the morning. My eye immediately goes into the lower float. I ignore these. That's not interesting. The volume on this is all fine. This float's a little higher, and I spot that. And that's an important distinction. So the difference between 36 million shares and 229, it's a lot of volume, but really they're going to trade pretty similarly, so that's kind of the same at that point. I could probably add a little bit more variance in the shading here up to maybe 5 million. And maybe I'll do that. Maybe I'll ask the developers to work on that today. But in any case, all of this is subject to some modifications, periodically, there'll be some adjustments that we make. But generally, this has been pretty consistent over a pretty long period of time. So now we've done a pretty deep dive into scanning. And so I would sort of put a, just to kind of put a bow on this class. I hope you guys find a lot of value in the scanners that we've built out here. We began building this software in 2017. It was the same year I started my small account challenge, the $583 small account challenge. And I decided at that time that I wanted to, I had a sort of big goal of creating a platform just for the type of traders that were like me, this type of momentum trading, because we had been left in the dust. Your other platforms like the finger swim and e-trade pro, all those other platforms in those days, they didn't cater to what we needed. They didn't give us the type of scanners, they didn't give us the type of charts, they didn't give us the hot keys, they didn't give us that stuff. And so we were left piecing together from four or five different vendors. Scanners from one place, charts from another, the trading platform from the third. And now each one charges you market data. So and they have to. We have to charge you market data. I mean we pay it on your behalf, but we have to pay market data. But what if you could use the same market data for charts, scanners, and level two? Well you can. You just need one person that is able to create the platform and the technology for all of those three features in one universe or in one ecosystem. And there are platforms like this for certain other niches, like options trading or forex or futures. But for day trading stocks, there really haven't been something. So we began the process and we're well into it now. We're continuing to build it and improve on it. And so I hope you guys find value in it. I think that you will. And we always appreciate feedback and questions and suggestions and everything else. So you know, this is built designed by traders, you know, built for traders. And it's something that I hope you really do enjoy. All right, so with that we can go ahead and continue on to the next chapter.